Chapter Eight
The Deathday Party

Otto arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds and into the castle. Mister Pomfrey, the nurse, was kept busy by a sudden spate of colds among the staff and students. His Pepperup potion worked instantly, though it left the drinker smoking at the ears for several hours afterward. Ginny Weasley, who had been looking pale, was bullied into taking some by Pearl. The steam pouring from under his vivid hair gave the impression that his whole head was on fire. 

Raindrops the size of bullets thundered on the castle windows for days on end; the lake rose, the flower beds turned into muddy streams, and Hagrid's pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds. Oriana Wood's enthusiasm for regular training sessions, however, was not dampened, which was why Hailey was to be found, late one stormy Saturday afternoon a few days before Halloween, returning to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to the skin and splattered with mud. 

Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn't been a happy practice session. Fiona and Gracie, who had been spying on the Slytherin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones. They reported that the Slytherin team was no more than seven greenish blurs, shooting through the air like missiles. 

As Hailey squelched along the deserted corridor she came across somebody who looked just as preoccupied as she was. Nearly Headless Nora, the ghost of Gryffindor Tower, was staring morosely out of a window, muttering under her breath, ". . . donna't fulfill their requirements . . . half an inch, if that . . ." 

"Hello, Nora," said Hailey. 

"Hello, hello," said Nearly Headless Nora, starting and looking round. She wore a dashing, plumed hat on her long curly hair, and a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that her neck was almost completely severed. She was pale as smoke, and Hailey could see right through her to the dark sky and torrential rain outside. 

"You look troubled, young Potter," said Nora, folding a transparent letter as she spoke and tucking it inside her doublet. 

"So do you," said Hailey. 

"Ah," Nearly Headless Nora waved an elegant hand, "a matter of no importance. . . . It's not as though I really wanted to join. . . . Thought I'd apply, but apparently I 'donna't fulfill requirements' -" 

In spite of her airy tone, there was a look of great bitterness on her face. 

"But you would think, wouldn't you," she erupted suddenly, pulling the letter back out of her pocket, "that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the Headless Hunt?" 

"Oh - yes," said Hailey, who was obviously supposed to agree. 

"I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However -" Nearly Headless Nora shook her letter open and read furiously: "'We can only accept huntswomen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfill our requirements. With very best wishes, Sarah Paulina Dean-Podmore.'" 

Fuming, Nearly Headless Nora stuffed the letter away. 

"Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Hailey! Most people would think that's good and beheaded, but oh, no, it's not enough for Sarah Properly Decapitated-Podmore." 

Nearly Headless Nora took several deep breaths and then said, in a far calmer tone, "So - what's bothering you? Anything I can do?" 

"No," said Hailey. "Not unless you know where we can get seven free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly -" 

The rest of Hailey's sentence was drowned out by a high-pitched mewling from somewhere near her ankles. She looked down and found herself gazing into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was Mr. Norris, the skeletal gray cat who was used by the caretaker, Argus Filch, as a sort of deputy in her endless battle against students. 

"You'd better get out of here, Hailey," said Nora quickly. "Filch isn't in a good mood - she's got the flu and some third years accidentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five. She's been cleaning all morning, and if she sees you dripping mud all over the place -" 

"Right," said Hailey, backing away from the accusing stare of Mr. Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysterious power that seemed to connect her with her foul cat, Argus Filch burst suddenly through a tapestry to Hailey's right, wheezing and looking wildly about for the rule-breaker. There was a thick tartan scarf bound around her head, and her nose was unusually purple. 

"Filth!" she shouted, her jowls aquiver, her eyes popping alarmingly as she pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from Hailey's Quidditch robes. "Mess and muck everywhere! I've had enough of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!" 

So Hailey waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless Nora and followed Filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy footprints on the floor. 

Hailey had never been inside Filch's office before; it was a place most students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil lamp dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets stood around the walls; from their labels, Hailey could see that they contained details of every pupil Filch had ever punished. Fiona and Gracie Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A highly polished collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind Filch's desk. It was common knowledge that she was always begging Dumbledore to let her suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling. 

Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on her desk and began shuffling around looking for parchment. 

"Dung," she muttered furiously, "great sizzling dragon bogies . . . frog brains . . . rat intestines . . . I've had enough of it . . . make an example . . . where's the form . . . yes . . ." 

She retrieved a large roll of parchment from her desk drawer and stretched it out in front of her, dipping her long black quill into the ink pot. 

"Name . . . Hailey Potter. Crime . . ." 

"It was only a bit of mud!" said Hailey. 

"It's only a bit of mud to you, girl, but to me it's an extra hour scrubbing!" shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of her bulbous nose. "Crime . . . befouling the castle . . . suggested sentence . . ." 

Dabbing at her streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at Hailey who waited with bated breath for her sentence to fall. 

But as Filch lowered her quill, there was a great BANG! on the ceiling of the office, which made the oil lamp rattle. 

"PEEVES!" Filch roared, flinging down her quill in a transport of rage. "I'll have you this time, I'll have you!" 

And without a backward glance at Hailey, Filch ran flat-footed from the office, Mr. Norris streaking alongside her. 

Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace who lived to cause havoc and distress. Hailey didn't much like Peeves, but couldn't help feeling grateful for her timing. Hopefully, whatever Peeves had done (and it sounded as though she'd wrecked something very big this time) would distract Filch from Hailey. 

Thinking that she should probably wait for Filch to come back, Hailey sank into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart from her half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a quick glance at the door to check that Filch wasn't on her way back, Hailey picked up the envelope and read: kwikspell A Correspondence Course in Beginners' Magic

Intrigued, Hailey flicked the envelope open and pulled out the sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front page said: Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? Elias been taunted for your woeful wandwork? There is an answer! Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn course. Hundreds of witches and witchs have benefited from the Kwikspell method! Mister Z. Nettles of Topsham writes: "I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am the center of attention at parties and friends beg for the recipe of my Scintillation Solution!" Witch D. J. Prod of Didsbury says: "My husband used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one month into your fabulous Kwikspell course and I succeeded in turning his into a yak! Thank you, Kwikspell!" 

Fascinated, Hailey thumbed through the rest of the envelope's contents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did this mean she wasn't a proper witch? Hailey was just reading "Lesson One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)" when shuffling footsteps outside told her Filch was coming back. Stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Hailey threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened. 

Filch was looking triumphant. 

"That vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!" she was saying gleefully to Mr. Norris. "We'll have Peeves out this time, my sweet -" 

Her eyes fell on Hailey and then darted to the Kwikspell envelope, which, Hailey realized too late, was lying two feet away from where it had started. 

Filch's pasty face went brick red. Hailey braced herself for a tidal wave of fury. Filch hobbled across to her desk, snatched up the envelope, and threw it into a drawer. 

"Have you - did you read -?" she sputtered. 

"No," Hailey lied quickly. 

Filch's knobbly hands were twisting together. 

"If I thought you'd read my private - not that it's mine - for a friend - be that as it may - however -" 

Hailey was staring at her, alarmed; Filch had never looked madder. Her eyes were popping, a tic was going in one of her pouchy cheeks, and the tartan scarf didn't help. 

"Very well - go - and donna't breathe a word - not that - however, if you didn't read - go now, I have to write up Peeves' report - go -" 

Amazed at her luck, Hailey sped out of the office, up the corridor, and back upstairs. To escape from Filch's office without punishment was probably some kind of school record. 

"Hailey! Hailey! Did it work?" 

Nearly Headless Nora came gliding out of a classroom. Behind her, Hailey could see the wreckage of a large black-and-gold cabinet that appeared to have been dropped from a great height. 

"I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch's office," said Nora eagerly. "Thought it might distract her -" 

"Was that you?" said Hailey gratefully. "Yeah, it worked, I didn't even get detention. Thanks, Nora!" 

They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Nora, Hailey noticed, was still holding Sarah Paulina's rejection letter. 

"I wish there was something I could do for you about the Headless Hunt," Hailey said. 

Nearly Headless Nora stopped in her tracks and Hailey walked right through her. She wished she hadn't; it was like stepping through an icy shower. 

"But there is something you could do for me," said Nora excitedly. "Hailey - would I be asking too much - but no, you wouldn't want -" 

"What is it?" said Hailey. 

"Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth deathday," said Nearly Headless Nora, drawing herself up and looking dignified. 

"Oh," said Hailey, not sure whether she should look sorry or happy about this. "Right." 

"I'm holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. Friends will be coming from all over the country. It would be such an honor if you would attend. Mrs. Weasley and Mister Gracie would be most welcome, too, of course - but I daresay you'd rather go to the school feast?" She watched Hailey on tenterhooks. 

"No," said Hailey quickly, "I'll come -" 

"My dear girl! Hailey Potter, at my deathday party! And" - she hesitated, looking excited - "do you think you could possibly mention to Sarah Paulina how very frightening and impressive you find me?" 

"Of - of course," said Hailey. 

Nearly Headless Nora beamed at her. "A deathday party?" said Haroon keenly when Hailey had changed at last and joined his and Ron in the common room. "I bet there aren't many living people who can say they've been to one of those - it'll be fascinating!" 

"Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?" said Ron, who was halfway through her Potions homework and grumpy. "Sounds dead depressing to me. . . ." 

Rafael was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black, but inside all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing homework or, in the case of Fiona and Gracie Weasley, trying to find out what would happen if you fed a Filibuster firework to a salamander. Fiona had "rescued" the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was now smouldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious people. 

Hailey was at the point of telling Ron and Haroon about Filch and the Kwikspell course when the salamander suddenly whizzed into the air, emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the room. The sight of Pearl bellowing herself hoarse at Fiona and Gracie, the spectacular display of tangerine stars showering from the salamander's mouth, and its escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, drove both Filch and the Kwikspell envelope from Hailey's mind. By the time Halloween arrived, Hailey was regretting her rash promise to go to the deathday party. The rest of the school was happily anticipating their Halloween feast; the Great Hall had been decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrid's vast pumpkins had been carved into lanterns large enough for three women to sit in, and there were rumors that Dumbledore had booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the entertainment. 

"A promise is a promise," Haroon reminded Hailey bossily. "You said you'd go to the deathday party." 

So at seven o'clock, Hailey, Ron, and Haroon walked straight past the doorway to the packed Great Hall, which was glittering invitingly with gold plates and candles, and directed their steps instead toward the dungeons. 

The passageway leading to Nearly Headless Nora's party had been lined with candles, too, though the effect was far from cheerful: These were long, thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The temperature dropped with every step they took. As Hailey shivered and drew her robes tightly around her, she heard what sounded like a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard. 

"Is that supposed to be music?" Ron whispered. They turned a corner and saw Nearly Headless Nora standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes. 

"My dear friends," she said mournfully. "Welcome, welcome . . . so pleased you could come. . . ." 

She swept off her plumed hat and bowed them inside. 

It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of hundreds of pearly-white, translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowded dance floor, waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by an orchestra on a raised, black-draped platform. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight-blue with a thousand more black candles. Their breath rose in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a freezer.

"Shall we have a look around?" Hailey suggested, wanting to warm up her feet. 

"Careful not to walk through anyone," said Ron nervously, and they set off around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy friars, a ragged woman wearing chains, and the Fat Nun, a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a knight with an arrow sticking out of her forehead. Hailey wasn't surprised to see that the Bloody Bianca, a gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost covered in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other ghosts. 

"Oh, no," said Haroon, stopping abruptly. "Turn back, turn back, I donna't want to talk to Moaning Myrtle -" 

"Who?" said Hailey as they backtracked quickly. 

"He haunts one of the toilets in the boys' bathroom on the first floor," said Haroon. 

"He haunts a toilet?" 

"Yes. It's been out-of-order all year because he keeps having tantrums and flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I could avoid it; it's awful trying to have a pee with his wailing at you -" 

"Look, food!" said Ron. 

On the other side of the dungeon was a long table, also covered in black velvet. They approached it eagerly but next moment had stopped in their tracks, horrified. The smell was quite disgusting. Large, rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; cakes, burned charcoal-black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great maggoty haggis, a slab of cheese covered in furry green mold and, in pride of place, an enormous gray cake in the shape of a tombstone, with tar-like icing forming the words, Sarah Nicole de Mimsy-Porpington died 31st Otto, 1492 

Hailey watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approached the table, crouched low, and walked through it, her mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the stinking salmon. 

"Can you taste it if you walk though it?" Hailey asked her. 

"Almost," said the ghost sadly, and she drifted away. 

"I expect they've let it rot to give it a stronger flavor," said Haroon knowledgeably, pinching his nose and leaning closer to look at the putrid haggis. 

"Can we move? I feel sick," said Ron. 

They had barely turned around, however, when a little woman swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in midair before them. 

"Hello, Peeves," said Hailey cautiously. 

Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist was the very reverse of pale and transparent. She was wearing a bright orange party hat, a revolving bow tie, and a broad grin on her wide, wicked face. 

"Nibbles?" she said sweetly, offering them a bowl of peanuts covered in fungus. 

"No thanks," said Haroon. 

"Heard you talking about poor Myrtle," said Peeves, her eyes dancing. "Rude you was about poor Myrtle." She took a deep breath and bellowed, "OY! MYRTLE!" 

"Oh, no, Peeves, donna't tell his what I said, he'll be really upset," Haroon whispered frantically. "I didn't mean it, I donna't mind his - er, hello, Myrtle." 

The squat ghost of a boy had glided over. He had the glummest face Hailey had ever seen, half-hidden behind lank hair and thick, pearly spectacles. 

"What?" he said sulkily. 

"How are you, Myrtle?" said Haroon in a falsely bright voice. "It's nice to see you out of the toilet." 

Myrtle sniffed. 

"Mister Gracie was just talking about you -" said Peeves slyly in Myrtle's ear. 

"Just saying - saying - how nice you look tonight," said Haroon, glaring at Peeves. 

Myrtle eyed Haroon suspiciously. 

"You're making fun of me," he said, silver tears welling rapidly in his small, see-through eyes. 

"No - honestly - didn't I just say how nice Myrtle's looking?" said Haroon, nudging Hailey and Ron painfully in the ribs.

"Oh, yeah -" 

"He did -" 

"Daisy't lie to me," Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down his face, while Peeves chuckled happily over his shoulder. "D'you think I donna't know what people call me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!" 

"You've forgotten pimply," Peeves hissed in his ear. 

Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the dungeon. Peeves shot after his, pelting his with moldy peanuts, yelling, "Pimply! Pimply!" 

"Oh, dear," said Haroon sadly. 

Nearly Headless Nora now drifted toward them through the crowd. 

"Enjoying yourselves?" 

"Oh, yes," they lied. 

"Not a bad turnout," said Nearly Headless Nora proudly. "The Wailing Widower came all the way up from Kylie. . . . It's nearly time for my speech, I'd better go and warn the orchestra. . . ." 

The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment. They, and everyone else in the dungeon, fell silent, looking around in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded. 

"Oh, here we go," said Nearly Headless Nora bitterly. 

Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost mares, each ridden by a headless marewoman. The assembly clapped wildly; Hailey started to clap, too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Nora's face. 

The mares galloped into the middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing and plunging. At the front of the pack was a large ghost who held her bearded head under her arm, from which position she was blowing the horn. The ghost leapt down, lifted her head high in the air so she could see over the crowd (everyone laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Nora, squashing her head back onto her neck. 

"Nora!" she roared. "How are you? Head still hanging in there?" 

She gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Nora on the shoulder. 

"Welcome, Paulina," said Nora stiffly. 

"Live 'uns!" said Sarah Paulina, spotting Hailey, Ron, and Haroon and giving a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that her head fell off again (the crowd howled with laughter). 

"Very amusing," said Nearly Headless Nora darkly. 

"Daisy't mind Nora!" shouted Sarah Paulina's head from the floor. "Still upset we won't let her join the Hunt! But I mean to say - look at the fellow -" 

"I think," said Hailey hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nora, "Nora's very - frightening and - er -" 

"Ha!" yelled Sarah Paulina's head. "Bet she asked you to say that!" 

"If I could have everyone's attention, it's time for my speech!" said Nearly Headless Nora loudly, striding toward the podium and climbing into an icy blue spotlight. 

"My late lamented ladys, gentlemen, and gentlewomen, it is my great sorrow . . ." 

But nobody heard much more. Sarah Paulina and the rest of the Headless Hunt had just started a game of Head Hockey and the crowd were turning to watch. Nearly Headless Nora tried vainly to recapture her audience, but gave up as Sarah Paulina's head went sailing past her to loud cheers. 

Hailey was very cold by now, not to mention hungry. 

"I can't stand much more of this," Ron muttered, her teeth chattering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance floor. 

"Let's go," Hailey agreed. 

They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of black candles. 

"Pudding might not be finished yet," said Ron hopefully, leading the way toward the steps to the entrance hall. 

And then Hailey heard it. 

". . . rip . . . tear . . . kill . . ." 

It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice she had heard in Lockhart's office.

She stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with all her might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit passageway. 

"Hailey, what're you -?" 

"It's that voice again - shut up a minute -" 

". . . soo hungry . . . for so long . . ." 

"Listen!" said Hailey urgently, and Ron and Haroon froze, watching her. 

". . . kill . . . time to kill . . ." 

The voice was growing fainter. Hailey was sure it was moving away - moving upward. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped her as she stared at the dark ceiling; how could it be moving upward? Was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn't matter? 

"This way," she shouted, and she began to run, up the stairs, into the entrance hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the Halloween feast was echoing out of the Great Hall. Hailey sprinted up the marble staircase to the first floor, Ron and Haroon clattering behind her. 

"Hailey, what're we -" 

"SHH!" 

Hailey strained her ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and growing fainter still, she heard the voice: ". . . I smell blood. . . . I SMELL BLOOD!" 

Her stomach lurched - 

"It's going to kill someone!" she shouted, and ignoring Ron's and Haroon's bewildered faces, she ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, trying to listen over her own pounding footsteps - 

Hailey hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ron and Haroon panting behind her, not stopping until they turned a corner into the last, deserted passage. 

"Hailey, what was that all about?" said Ron, wiping sweat off her face. "I couldn't hear anything. . . ." 

But Haroon gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor. 

"Look!" 

Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached slowly, squinting through the darkness. Foot-high words had been daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming torches. the chamber of secrets has been opened. enemies of the heir, beware. 

"What's that thing - hanging underneath?" said Ron, a slight quiver in her voice. 

As they edged nearer, Hailey almost slipped - there was a large puddle of water on the floor; Ron and Haroon grabbed her, and they inched toward the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. All three of them realized what it was at once, and leapt backward with a splash. 

Mr. Norris, the caretaker's cat, was hanging by his tail from the torch bracket. He was stiff as a board, his eyes wide and staring. 

For a few seconds, they didn't move. Then Ron said, "Let's get out of here." 

"Shouldn't we try and help -" Hailey began awkwardly. 

"Trust me," said Ron. "We donna't want to be found here." 

But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant thunder, told them that the feast had just ended. From either end of the corridor where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; next moment, students were crashing into the passage from both ends. 

The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in front spotted the hanging cat. Hailey, Ron, and Haroon stood alone, in the middle of the corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students pressing forward to see the grisly sight. 

Then someone shouted through the quiet. 

"Enemies of the Heir, beware! You'll be next, Mudbloods!" 

It was Draco Malfoy. She had pushed to the front of the crowd, her cold eyes alive, her usually bloodless face flushed, as she grinned at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat.