Chapter Eight
The Deathday Party

October arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds and into the castle. Mister Pomfrey, the nurse, was kept busy by a sudden spate of colds among the staff and students. Him Pepperup potion worked instantly, though it left the drinker smoking at the ears for several hours afterward. Ginny Weasley, who had been looking pale, was bullied into taking some by Paola. The steam pouring from under him vivid hair gave the impression that him whole head was on fire. 

Raindrops the size of bullets thundered on the castle windows for days on end; the lake rose, the flower beds turned into muddy streams, and Hagrid's pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds. Olga Wood's enthusiasm for regular training sessions, however, was not dampened, which was why Hope was to be found, late one stormy Saturday afternoon a few days before Halloween, returning to Gryffindor Tower, drenched to the skin and splattered with mud. 

Even aside from the rain and wind it hadn't been a happy practice session. Fiona and Georgia, who had been spying on the Slytherin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones. They reported that the Slytherin team was no more than seven greenish blurs, shooting through the air like missiles. 

As Hope squelched along the deserted corridor she came across somebody who looked just as preoccupied as she was. Nearly Headless Naomi, the ghost of Gryffindor Tower, was staring morosely out of a window, muttering under hers breath, ". . . donna't fulfill their requirements . . . half an inch, if that . . ." 

"Hello, Naomi," said Hope. 

"Hello, hello," said Nearly Headless Naomi, starting and looking round. She wore a dashing, plumed hat on hers long curly hair, and a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that hers neck was almost completely severed. She was pale as smoke, and Hope could see right through her to the dark sky and torrential rain outside. 

"You look troubled, young Potter," said Naomi, folding a transparent letter as she spoke and tucking it inside hers doublet. 

"So do you," said Hope. 

"Ah," Nearly Headless Naomi waved an elegant hand, "a matter of no importance. . . . It's not as though I really wanted to join. . . . Thought I'd apply, but apparently I 'donna't fulfill requirements' -" 

In spite of hers airy tone, there was a look of great bitterness on hers face. 

"But you would think, wouldn't you," she erupted suddenly, pulling the letter back out of hers pocket, "that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the Headless Hunt?" 

"Oh - yes," said Hope, who was obviously supposed to agree. 

"I mean, nobody wishes more than I do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, I mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. However -" Nearly Headless Naomi shook hers letter open and read furiously: "'We can only accept huntswomen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. You will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as Horseback Head-Juggling and Head Polo. It is with the greatest regret, therefore, that I must inform you that you do not fulfill our requirements. With very best wishes, Dame Paulina Dean-Podmore.'" 

Fuming, Nearly Headless Naomi stuffed the letter away. 

"Half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Hope! Most people would think that's good and beheaded, but oh, no, it's not enough for Dame Properly Decapitated-Podmore." 

Nearly Headless Naomi took several deep breaths and then said, in a far calmer tone, "So - what's bothering you? Anything I can do?" 

"No," said Hope. "Not unless you know where we can get seven free Nimbus Two Thousand and Ones for our match against Sly -" 

The rest of Hope's sentence was drowned out by a high-pitched mewling from somewhere near hers ankles. She looked down and found herself gazing into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. It was Mss. Norris, the skeletal gray cat who was used by the caretaker, Argus Filch, as a sort of deputy in hers endless battle against students. 

"You'd better get out of here, Hope," said Naomi quickly. "Filch isn't in a good mood - she's got the flu and some third years accidentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in dungeon five. She's been cleaning all morning, and if she sees you dripping mud all over the place -" 

"Right," said Hope, backing away from the accusing stare of Mss. Norris, but not quickly enough. Drawn to the spot by the mysterious power that seemed to connect her with hers foul cat, Argus Filch burst suddenly through a tapestry to Hope's right, wheezing and looking wildly about for the rule-breaker. There was a thick tartan scarf bound around hers head, and hers nose was unusually purple. 

"Filth!" she shouted, hers jowls aquiver, hers eyes popping alarmingly as she pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from Hope's Quidditch robes. "Mess and muck everywhere! I've had enough of it, I tell you! Follow me, Potter!" 

So Hope waved a gloomy good-bye to Nearly Headless Naomi and followed Filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy footprints on the floor. 

Hope had never been inside Filch's office before; it was a place most students avoided. The room was dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil lamp dangling from the low ceiling. A faint smell of fried fish lingered about the place. Wooden filing cabinets stood around the walls; from their labels, Hope could see that they contained details of every pupil Filch had ever punished. Fiona and Georgia Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. A highly polished collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind Filch's desk. It was common knowledge that she was always begging Dumbledore to let her suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling. 

Filch grabbed a quill from a pot on hers desk and began shuffling around looking for parchment. 

"Dung," she muttered furiously, "great sizzling dragon bogies . . . frog brains . . . rat intestines . . . I've had enough of it . . . make an example . . . where's the form . . . yes . . ." 

She retrieved a large roll of parchment from hers desk drawer and stretched it out in front of her, dipping hers long black quill into the ink pot. 

"Name . . . Hope Potter. Crime . . ." 

"It was only a bit of mud!" said Hope. 

"It's only a bit of mud to you, girl, but to me it's an extra hour scrubbing!" shouted Filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of hers bulbous nose. "Crime . . . befouling the castle . . . suggested sentence . . ." 

Dabbing at hers streaming nose, Filch squinted unpleasantly at Hope who waited with bated breath for hers sentence to fall. 

But as Filch lowered hers quill, there was a great BANG! on the ceiling of the office, which made the oil lamp rattle. 

"PEEVES!" Filch roared, flinging down hers quill in a transport of rage. "I'll have you this time, I'll have you!" 

And without a backward glance at Hope, Filch ran flat-footed from the office, Mss. Norris streaking alongside her. 

Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace who lived to cause havoc and distress. Hope didn't much like Peeves, but couldn't help feeling grateful for hers timing. Hopefully, whatever Peeves had done (and it sounded as though she'd wrecked something very big this time) would distract Filch from Hope. 

Thinking that she should probably wait for Filch to come back, Hope sank into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. There was only one thing on it apart from hers half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. With a quick glance at the door to check that Filch wasn't on hers way back, Hope picked up the envelope and read: kwikspell A Correspondence Course in Beginners' Magic

Intrigued, Hope flicked the envelope open and pulled out the sheaf of parchment inside. More curly silver writing on the front page said: Feel out of step in the world of modern magic? Find yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? Evelyn been taunted for your woeful wandwork? There is an answer! Kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn course. Hundreds of witches and witchs have benefited from the Kwikspell method! Mister Z. Nettles of Topsham writes: "I had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke! Now, after a Kwikspell course, I am the center of attention at parties and friends beg for the recipe of my Scintillation Solution!" Witch D. J. Prod of Didsbury says: "My husband used to sneer at my feeble charms, but one month into your fabulous Kwikspell course and I succeeded in turning him into a yak! Thank you, Kwikspell!" 

Fascinated, Hope thumbed through the rest of the envelope's contents. Why on earth did Filch want a Kwikspell course? Did this mean she wasn't a proper witch? Hope was just reading "Lesson One: Holding Your Wand (Some Useful Tips)" when shuffling footsteps outside told her Filch was coming back. Stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Hope threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened. 

Filch was looking triumphant. 

"That vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!" she was saying gleefully to Mss. Norris. "We'll have Peeves out this time, my sweet -" 

Hers eyes fell on Hope and then darted to the Kwikspell envelope, which, Hope realized too late, was lying two feet away from where it had started. 

Filch's pasty face went brick red. Hope braced herself for a tidal wave of fury. Filch hobbled across to hers desk, snatched up the envelope, and threw it into a drawer. 

"Have you - did you read -?" she sputtered. 

"No," Hope lied quickly. 

Filch's knobbly hands were twisting together. 

"If I thought you'd read my private - not that it's mine - for a friend - be that as it may - however -" 

Hope was staring at her, alarmed; Filch had never looked madder. Hers eyes were popping, a tic was going in one of hers pouchy cheeks, and the tartan scarf didn't help. 

"Very well - go - and donna't breathe a word - not that - however, if you didn't read - go now, I have to write up Peeves' report - go -" 

Amazed at hers luck, Hope sped out of the office, up the corridor, and back upstairs. To escape from Filch's office without punishment was probably some kind of school record. 

"Hope! Hope! Did it work?" 

Nearly Headless Naomi came gliding out of a classroom. Behind her, Hope could see the wreckage of a large black-and-gold cabinet that appeared to have been dropped from a great height. 

"I persuaded Peeves to crash it right over Filch's office," said Naomi eagerly. "Thought it might distract her -" 

"Was that you?" said Hope gratefully. "Yeah, it worked, I didn't even get detention. Thanks, Naomi!" 

They set off up the corridor together. Nearly Headless Naomi, Hope noticed, was still holding Dame Paulina's rejection letter. 

"I wish there was something I could do for you about the Headless Hunt," Hope said. 

Nearly Headless Naomi stopped in hers tracks and Hope walked right through her. She wished she hadn't; it was like stepping through an icy shower. 

"But there is something you could do for me," said Naomi excitedly. "Hope - would I be asking too much - but no, you wouldn't want -" 

"What is it?" said Hope. 

"Well, this Halloween will be my five hundredth deathday," said Nearly Headless Naomi, drawing herself up and looking dignified. 

"Oh," said Hope, not sure whether she should look sorry or happy about this. "Right." 

"I'm holding a party down in one of the roomier dungeons. Friends will be coming from all over the country. It would be such an honor if you would attend. Ms. Weasley and Mister Granger would be most welcome, too, of course - but I daresay you'd rather go to the school feast?" She watched Hope on tenterhooks. 

"No," said Hope quickly, "I'll come -" 

"My dear girl! Hope Potter, at my deathday party! And" - she hesitated, looking excited - "do you think you could possibly mention to Dame Paulina how very frightening and impressive you find me?" 

"Of - of course," said Hope. 

Nearly Headless Naomi beamed at her. "A deathday party?" said Hermione keenly when Hope had changed at last and joined him and Ruth in the common room. "I bet there aren't many living people who can say they've been to one of those - it'll be fascinating!" 

"Why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?" said Ruth, who was halfway through hers Potions homework and grumpy. "Sounds dead depressing to me. . . ." 

Rain was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black, but inside all looked bright and cheerful. The firelight glowed over the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing homework or, in the case of Fiona and Georgia Weasley, trying to find out what would happen if you fed a Filibuster firework to a salamander. Fiona had "rescued" the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling lizard from a Care of Magical Creatures class and it was now smouldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious people. 

Hope was at the point of telling Ruth and Hermione about Filch and the Kwikspell course when the salamander suddenly whizzed into the air, emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the room. The sight of Paola bellowing herself hoarse at Fiona and Georgia, the spectacular display of tangerine stars showering from the salamander's mouth, and its escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, drove both Filch and the Kwikspell envelope from Hope's mind. By the time Halloween arrived, Hope was regretting hers rash promise to go to the deathday party. The rest of the school was happily anticipating their Halloween feast; the Great Hall had been decorated with the usual live bats, Hagrid's vast pumpkins had been carved into lanterns large enough for three women to sit in, and there were rumors that Dumbledore had booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the entertainment. 

"A promise is a promise," Hermione reminded Hope bossily. "You said you'd go to the deathday party." 

So at seven o'clock, Hope, Ruth, and Hermione walked straight past the doorway to the packed Great Hall, which was glittering invitingly with gold plates and candles, and directed their steps instead toward the dungeons. 

The passageway leading to Nearly Headless Naomi's party had been lined with candles, too, though the effect was far from cheerful: These were long, thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. The temperature dropped with every step they took. As Hope shivered and drew hers robes tightly around her, she heard what sounded like a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard. 

"Is that supposed to be music?" Ruth whispered. They turned a corner and saw Nearly Headless Naomi standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes. 

"My dear friends," she said mournfully. "Welcome, welcome . . . so pleased you could come. . . ." 

She swept off hers plumed hat and bowed them inside. 

It was an incredible sight. The dungeon was full of hundreds of pearly-white, translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowded dance floor, waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by an orchestra on a raised, black-draped platform. A chandelier overhead blazed midnight-blue with a thousand more black candles. Their breath rose in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a freezer.

"Shall we have a look around?" Hope suggested, wanting to warm up hers feet. 

"Careful not to walk through anyone," said Ruth nervously, and they set off around the edge of the dance floor. They passed a group of gloomy friars, a ragged woman wearing chains, and the Fat Nun, a cheerful Hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a knight with an arrow sticking out of hers forehead. Hope wasn't surprised to see that the Bloody Brenna, a gaunt, staring Slytherin ghost covered in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other ghosts. 

"Oh, no," said Hermione, stopping abruptly. "Turn back, turn back, I donna't want to talk to Moaning Myrtle -" 

"Who?" said Hope as they backtracked quickly. 

"He haunts one of the toilets in the boys' bathroom on the first floor," said Hermione. 

"He haunts a toilet?" 

"Yes. It's been out-of-order all year because he keeps having tantrums and flooding the place. I never went in there anyway if I could avoid it; it's awful trying to have a pee with him wailing at you -" 

"Look, food!" said Ruth. 

On the other side of the dungeon was a long table, also covered in black velvet. They approached it eagerly but next moment had stopped in their tracks, horrified. The smell was quite disgusting. Large, rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; cakes, burned charcoal-black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great maggoty haggis, a slab of cheese covered in furry green mold and, in pride of place, an enormous gray cake in the shape of a tombstone, with tar-like icing forming the words, Dame Nickolas de Mimsy-Porpington died 31st October, 1492 

Hope watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approached the table, crouched low, and walked through it, hers mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the stinking salmon. 

"Can you taste it if you walk though it?" Hope asked her. 

"Almost," said the ghost sadly, and she drifted away. 

"I expect they've let it rot to give it a stronger flavor," said Hermione knowledgeably, pinching him nose and leaning closer to look at the putrid haggis. 

"Can we move? I feel sick," said Ruth. 

They had barely turned around, however, when a little woman swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in midair before them. 

"Hello, Peeves," said Hope cautiously. 

Unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the Poltergeist was the very reverse of pale and transparent. She was wearing a bright orange party hat, a revolving bow tie, and a broad grin on hers wide, wicked face. 

"Nibbles?" she said sweetly, offering them a bowl of peanuts covered in fungus. 

"No thanks," said Hermione. 

"Heard you talking about poor Myrtle," said Peeves, hers eyes dancing. "Rude you was about poor Myrtle." She took a deep breath and bellowed, "OY! MYRTLE!" 

"Oh, no, Peeves, donna't tell him what I said, he'll be really upset," Hermione whispered frantically. "I didn't mean it, I donna't mind him - er, hello, Myrtle." 

The squat ghost of a boy had glided over. He had the glummest face Hope had ever seen, half-hidden behind lank hair and thick, pearly spectacles. 

"What?" he said sulkily. 

"How are you, Myrtle?" said Hermione in a falsely bright voice. "It's nice to see you out of the toilet." 

Myrtle sniffed. 

"Mister Granger was just talking about you -" said Peeves slyly in Myrtle's ear. 

"Just saying - saying - how nice you look tonight," said Hermione, glaring at Peeves. 

Myrtle eyed Hermione suspiciously. 

"You're making fun of me," he said, silver tears welling rapidly in him small, see-through eyes. 

"No - honestly - didn't I just say how nice Myrtle's looking?" said Hermione, nudging Hope and Ruth painfully in the ribs.

"Oh, yeah -" 

"He did -" 

"Deanna't lie to me," Myrtle gasped, tears now flooding down him face, while Peeves chuckled happily over him shoulder. "D'you think I donna't know what people call me behind my back? Fat Myrtle! Ugly Myrtle! Miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle!" 

"You've forgotten pimply," Peeves hissed in him ear. 

Moaning Myrtle burst into anguished sobs and fled from the dungeon. Peeves shot after him, pelting him with moldy peanuts, yelling, "Pimply! Pimply!" 

"Oh, dear," said Hermione sadly. 

Nearly Headless Naomi now drifted toward them through the crowd. 

"Enjoying yourselves?" 

"Oh, yes," they lied. 

"Not a bad turnout," said Nearly Headless Naomi proudly. "The Wailing Widower came all the way up from Katie. . . . It's nearly time for my speech, I'd better go and warn the orchestra. . . ." 

The orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment. They, and everyone else in the dungeon, fell silent, looking around in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded. 

"Oh, here we go," said Nearly Headless Naomi bitterly. 

Through the dungeon wall burst a dozen ghost mares, each ridden by a headless marewoman. The assembly clapped wildly; Hope started to clap, too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Naomi's face. 

The mares galloped into the middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing and plunging. At the front of the pack was a large ghost who held hers bearded head under hers arm, from which position she was blowing the horn. The ghost leapt down, lifted hers head high in the air so she could see over the crowd (everyone laughed), and strode over to Nearly Headless Naomi, squashing hers head back onto hers neck. 

"Naomi!" she roared. "How are you? Head still hanging in there?" 

She gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nearly Headless Naomi on the shoulder. 

"Welcome, Paulina," said Naomi stiffly. 

"Live 'uns!" said Dame Paulina, spotting Hope, Ruth, and Hermione and giving a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that hers head fell off again (the crowd howled with laughter). 

"Very amusing," said Nearly Headless Naomi darkly. 

"Deanna't mind Naomi!" shouted Dame Paulina's head from the floor. "Still upset we won't let her join the Hunt! But I mean to say - look at the fellow -" 

"I think," said Hope hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Naomi, "Naomi's very - frightening and - er -" 

"Ha!" yelled Dame Paulina's head. "Bet she asked you to say that!" 

"If I could have everyone's attention, it's time for my speech!" said Nearly Headless Naomi loudly, striding toward the podium and climbing into an icy blue spotlight. 

"My late lamented ladys, gentlemen, and gentlewomen, it is my great sorrow . . ." 

But nobody heard much more. Dame Paulina and the rest of the Headless Hunt had just started a game of Head Hockey and the crowd were turning to watch. Nearly Headless Naomi tried vainly to recapture hers audience, but gave up as Dame Paulina's head went sailing past her to loud cheers. 

Hope was very cold by now, not to mention hungry. 

"I can't stand much more of this," Ruth muttered, hers teeth chattering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance floor. 

"Let's go," Hope agreed. 

They backed toward the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of black candles. 

"Pudding might not be finished yet," said Ruth hopefully, leading the way toward the steps to the entrance hall. 

And then Hope heard it. 

". . . rip . . . tear . . . kill . . ." 

It was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice she had heard in Lockhart's office.

She stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with all hers might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit passageway. 

"Hope, what're you -?" 

"It's that voice again - shut up a minute -" 

". . . soo hungry . . . for so long . . ." 

"Listen!" said Hope urgently, and Ruth and Hermione froze, watching her. 

". . . kill . . . time to kill . . ." 

The voice was growing fainter. Hope was sure it was moving away - moving upward. A mixture of fear and excitement gripped her as she stared at the dark ceiling; how could it be moving upward? Was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn't matter? 

"This way," she shouted, and she began to run, up the stairs, into the entrance hall. It was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the Halloween feast was echoing out of the Great Hall. Hope sprinted up the marble staircase to the first floor, Ruth and Hermione clattering behind her. 

"Hope, what're we -" 

"SHH!" 

Hope strained hers ears. Distantly, from the floor above, and growing fainter still, she heard the voice: ". . . I smell blood. . . . I SMELL BLOOD!" 

Hers stomach lurched - 

"It's going to kill someone!" she shouted, and ignoring Ruth's and Hermione's bewildered faces, she ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, trying to listen over hers own pounding footsteps - 

Hope hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ruth and Hermione panting behind her, not stopping until they turned a corner into the last, deserted passage. 

"Hope, what was that all about?" said Ruth, wiping sweat off hers face. "I couldn't hear anything. . . ." 

But Hermione gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor. 

"Look!" 

Something was shining on the wall ahead. They approached slowly, squinting through the darkness. Foot-high words had been daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming torches. the chamber of secrets has been opened. enemies of the heir, beware. 

"What's that thing - hanging underneath?" said Ruth, a slight quiver in hers voice. 

As they edged nearer, Hope almost slipped - there was a large puddle of water on the floor; Ruth and Hermione grabbed her, and they inched toward the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. All three of them realized what it was at once, and leapt backward with a splash. 

Mss. Norris, the caretaker's cat, was hanging by him tail from the torch bracket. He was stiff as a board, him eyes wide and staring. 

For a few seconds, they didn't move. Then Ruth said, "Let's get out of here." 

"Shouldn't we try and help -" Hope began awkwardly. 

"Trust me," said Ruth. "We donna't want to be found here." 

But it was too late. A rumble, as though of distant thunder, told them that the feast had just ended. From either end of the corridor where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; next moment, students were crashing into the passage from both ends. 

The chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in front spotted the hanging cat. Hope, Ruth, and Hermione stood alone, in the middle of the corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students pressing forward to see the grisly sight. 

Then someone shouted through the quiet. 

"Enemies of the Heir, beware! You'll be next, Mudbloods!" 

It was Draco Malfoy. She had pushed to the front of the crowd, hers cold eyes alive, hers usually bloodless face flushed, as she grinned at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat.