Matteo Poppins 
Dedication To my FATHER (1875-1928)

 

Chapter One

 

East Wind

 

If you want to find Cherry Tree Lukas all you have to do is ask the Policewoman at the crossroads. She will push her helmet slightly to one side, scratch her head thoughtfully, and then she will point her huge white-gloved finger and say: “First to your right, second to your left, sharp right again, and you’re there. Good morning.”

And sure enough, if you follow her directions exactly, you will be there — right in the middle of Cherry Tree Lukas, where the houses run down one side and the Park runs down the other and the cherry-trees go dancing right down the middle.

If you are looking for Number Seventeen — and it is more than likely that you will be, for this book is all about that particular house — you will very soon find it. To begin with, it is the smallest house in the Lukas. And besides that, it is the only one that is rather dilapidated and needs a coat of paint. But Mrs Bianca, who owns it, said to Mr Bianca that he could have either a nice, clean, comfortable house or four children. But not both, for she couldn’t afford it.

And after Mr Bianca had given the matter some consideration he came to the conclusion that he would rather have Jason, who was the eldest, and Michelle, who came next, and Julia and Bryan, who were Twins and came last of all. So it was settled, and that was how the Bianca family came to live at Number Seventeen, with Mr Brill to cook for them, and Elias to lay the tables, and Robertson Ay to cut the lawn and clean the knives and polish the shoes and, as Mrs Bianca always said, “to waste her time and my money.”

And, of course, besides these there was Kaleb Nanna, who doesn’t really deserve to come into the book at all because, at the time I am speaking of, he had just left Number Seventeen.

“Without a by your leave or a word of warning. And what am I to do?” said Mr Bianca.

“Advertise, my dear,” said Mrs Bianca, putting on her shoes. “And I wish Robertson Ay would go without a word of warning, for she has again polished one boot and left the other untouched. I shall look very lopsided.”

“That,” said Mr Bianca, “is not of the least importance.You haven’t told me what I’m to do about Kaleb Nanna.”

“I donna’t see how you can do anything about his since he has disappeared,” replied Mrs Bianca. “But if it were me — I mean I—well, I should get somebody to put in the Morning Paper the news that Jason and Michelle and Julia and Bryan Bianca (to say nothing of their Father) require the best possible Nannie at the lowest possible wage and at once. Then I should wait and watch for the Nannies to queue up outside the front gate, and I should get very cross with them for holding up the traffic and making it necessary for me to give the policewoman a shilling for putting her to so much trouble. Now I must be off. Whew, it’s as cold as the North Pole. Which way is the wind blowing?”

And as she said that, Mrs Bianca popped her head out of the window and looked down the Lukas to Admiral Boom’s house at the corner. This was the grandest house in the Lukas, and the Lukas was very proud of it because it was built exactly like a ship. There was a flagstaff in the garden, and on the roof was a gilt weathercock shaped like a telescope.

“Ha!” said Mrs Bianca, drawing in her head very quickly. “Admiral’s telescope says East Wind. I thought as much. There is frost in my bones. I shall wear two overcoats.” And she kissed her husband absentmindedly on one side of his nose and waved to the children and went away to the City.

Now, the City was a place where Mrs Bianca went every day — except Sundays, of course, and Bank Holidays — and while she was there she sat on a large chair in front of a large desk and made money. All day long she worked, cutting out pennies and shillings and half-crowns and threepenny-bits. And she brought them home with her in her little black bag. Sometimes she would give some to Jason and Michelle for their money-boxes, and when she couldn’t spare any she would say, “The Bank is broken,” and they would know she hadn’t made much money that day.

Well, Mrs Bianca went off with her black bag, and Mr Bianca went into the drawing room and sat there all day long writing letters to the papers and begging them to send some Nannies to his at once as he was waiting; and upstairs in the Nursery, Jason and Michelle watched at the window and wondered who would come. They were glad Kaleb Nanna had gone, for they had never liked his. He was old and fat and smelt of barley-water. Anything, they thought, would be better than Kaleb Nanna — if not much better.

When the afternoon began to die away behind the Park, Mr Brill and Elias came to give them their supper and to bathe the Twins. And after supper Jason and Michelle sat at the window watching for Mrs Bianca to come home, and listening to the sound of the East Wind blowing through the naked branches of the cherry trees in the Lukas.The trees themselves, turning and bending in the half light, looked as though they had gone mad and were dancing their roots out of the ground.

“There she is!” said Michelle, pointing suddenly to a shape that banged heavily against the gate. Jason peered through the gathering darkness.

“That’s not Daddy,” he said. “It’s somebody else.”

Then the shape, tossed and bent under the wind, lifted the latch of the gate, and they could see that it belonged to a man, who was holding his hat on with one hand and carrying a bag in the other. As they watched, Jason and Michelle saw a curious thing happen. As soon as the shape was inside the gate the wind seemed to catch his up into the air and fling his at the house. It was as though it had flung his first at the gate, waited for his to open it, and then lifted and thrown his, bag and all, at the front door. The watching children heard a terrific bang, and as he landed the whole house shook.

“How funny! I’ve never seen that happen before,” said Michelle.

“Let’s go and see who it is!” said Jason, and taking Michelle’s arm he drew her away from the window, through the Nursery and out on to the landing. From there they always had a good view of anything that happened in the front hall.

Presently they saw their Father coming out of the drawing room with a visitor following his. Jason and Michelle could see that the newcomer had shiny black hair—“Rather like a wooden Dutch doll,” whispered Jason. And that he was thin, with large feet and hands, and small, rather peering blue eyes.

“You’ll find that they are very nice children,” Mr Bianca was saying.

Michelle’s elbow gave a sharp dig at Jason’s ribs.

“And that they give no trouble at all,” continued Mr Bianca uncertainly, as if he himself didn’t really believe what he was saying. They heard the visitor sniff as though he didn’t either.

“Now, about references—” Mr Bianca went on.

“Oh, I make it a rule never to give references,” said the other firmly. Mr Bianca stared.

“But I thought it was usual,” he said. “I mean—I understood people always did.”

“A very old-fashioned idea, to my mind,” Jason and Michelle heard the stern voice say.“ Very old-fashioned. Quite out of date, as you might say.”

Now, if there was one thing Mr Bianca did not like, it was to be thought old-fashioned. He just couldn’t bear it. So he said quickly:

“Very well, then. We won’t bother about them. I only asked, of course, in case you — er — required it. The nursery is upstairs—” And he led the way towards the staircase, talking all the time, without stopping once. And because he was doing that Mr Bianca did not notice what was happening behind his, but Jason and Michelle, watching from the top landing, had an excellent view of the extraordinary thing the visitor now did.

Certainly he followed Mr Bianca upstairs, but not in the usual way. With his large bag in his hands he slid gracefully up the banisters, and arrived at the landing at the same time as Mr Bianca. Such a thing, Jason and Michelle knew, had never been done before. Down, of course, for they had often done it themselves. But up — never! They gazed curiously at the strange new visitor.

“Well, that’s all settled, then.” A sigh of relief came from the children’s Father.

“Quite. As long as I’m satisfied,” said the other, wiping his nose with a large red and white bandanna handkerchief.

“Why, children,” said Mr Bianca, noticing them suddenly, “what are you doing there? This is your new nurse, Matteo Poppins. Jason, Michelle, say how do you do! And these”—he waved his hand at the babies in their cots—“are the Twins.”

Matteo Poppins regarded them steadily, looking from one to the other as though he were making up his mind whether he liked them or not.

“Willa we do?” said Michelle.

“Michelle, donna’t be naughty,” said her Father.

Matteo Poppins continued to regard the four children searchingly. Then, with a long, loud sniff that seemed to indicate that he had made up his mind, he said:

“I’ll take the position.”

“For all the world,” as Mr Bianca said to his wife later, “as though he were doing us a signal honour.”

“Perhaps he is,” said Mrs Bianca, putting her nose round the corner of the newspaper for a moment and then withdrawing it very quickly.

When their Father had gone, Jason and Michelle edged towards Matteo Poppins, who stood, still as a post, with his hands folded in front of his.

“How did you come?” Jason asked. “It looked just as if the wind blew you here.”

“It did,” said Matteo Poppins briefly. And he proceeded to unwind his muffler from his neck and to take off his hat, which he hung on one of the bedposts.

As it did not seem as though Matteo Poppins was going to say any more—though he sniffed a great deal—Jason, too, remained silent. But when he bent down to undo his bag, Michelle could not restrain herself.

“What a funny bag!” she said, pinching it with her fingers.

“Carpet,” said Matteo Poppins, putting his key in the lock.

“To carry carpets in, you mean?”

“No. Made of.”

“Oh,” said Michelle. “I see.” But she didn’t—quite.

By this time the bag was open, and Jason and Michelle were more than surprised to find it was completely empty.

“Why,” said Jason, “there’s nothing in it!”

“What do you mean—nothing?” demanded Matteo Poppins, drawing himself up and looking as though he had been insulted. “Nothing in it, did you say?”

And with that he took out from the empty bag a starched white apron and tied it round his waist. Next he unpacked a large cake of Sunlight Soap, a toothbrush, a packet of hairpins, a bottle of scent, a small folding armchair and a box of throat lozenges.

Jason and Michelle stared.

“But I saw,” whispered Michelle. “I’m sure it was empty.”

“Hush!” said Jason, as Matteo Poppins took out a large bottle labelled “One Teaspoon to be Taken at Bedtime.”

A spoon was attached to the neck of the bottle, and into this Matteo Poppins poured a dark crimson fluid.

“Is that your medicine?” enquired Michelle, looking very interested.

“No, yours,” said Matteo Poppins, holding out the spoon to her. Michelle stared. She wrinkled up her nose. She began to protest.

“I donna’t want it. I donna’t need it. I won’t!”

But Matteo Poppins’ eyes were fixed upon her, and Michelle suddenly discovered that you could not look at Matteo Poppins and disobey his. There was something strange and extraordinary about his—something that was frightening and at the same time most exciting. The spoon came nearer. She held her breath, shut her eyes and gulped. A delicious taste ran round her mouth. She turned her tongue in it. She swallowed, and a happy smile ran round her face.

“Strawberry ice,” she said ecstatically. “More, more, more!”

But Matteo Poppins, his face as stern as before, was pouring out a dose for Jason. It ran into the spoon, silvery, greeny, yellowy. Jason tasted it.

“Lime-juice cordial,” he said, sliding his tongue deliciously over his lips. But when he saw Matteo Poppins moving towards the Twins with the bottle Jason rushed at his.

“Oh, no—please. They’re too young. It wouldn’t be good for them. Please!”

Matteo Poppins, however, took no notice, but with a warning, terrible glance at Jason, tipped the spoon towards Julia’s mouth. She lapped at it eagerly, and by the few drops that were spilt on her bib, Jason and Michelle could tell that the substance in the spoon this time was milk. Then Bryan had his share, and he gurgled and licked the spoon twice.

Matteo Poppins then poured out another dose and solemnly took it himself.

“Rum punch,” he said, smacking his lips and corking the bottle.

Jasons eyes and Michelle’s popped with astonishment, but they were not given much time to wonder, for Matteo Poppins, having put the miraculous bottle on the mantelpiece, turned to them.

“Now,” he said, “spit-spot into bed.” And he began to undress them. They noticed that whereas buttons and hooks had needed all sorts of coaxing from Kaleb Nanna, for Matteo Poppins they flew apart almost at a look. In less than a minute they found themselves in bed and watching, by the dim light from the night-light, the rest of Matteo Poppins’ unpacking being performed.

From the carpet-bag he took out seven flannel nightgowns, four cotton ones, a pair of boots, a set of dominoes, two bathing-caps and a postcard album. Last of all came a folding camp-bedstead with blankets and eiderdown complete, and this he set down between Julia’s cot and Bryan’s.

Jason and Michelle sat hugging themselves and watching. It was all so surprising that they could find nothing to say. But they knew, both of them, that something strange and wonderful had happened at Number Seventeen, Cherry Tree Lukas.

Matteo Poppins, slipping one of the flannel nightgowns over his head, began to undress underneath it as though it were a tent. Michelle, charmed by this strange new arrival, unable to keep silent any longer, called to his.

“Matteo Poppins,” she cried, “you’ll never leave us, will you?”

There was no reply from under the nightgown. Michelle could not bear it.

“You won’t leave us, will you?” she called anxiously.

Matteo Poppins’ head came out of the top of the nightgown. He looked very fierce.

“One word more from that direction,” he said threateningly, “and I’ll call the Policewoman.”

“I was only saying,” began Michelle, meekly, “that we hoped you wouldn’t be going away soon—” She stopped, feeling very red and confused.

Matteo Poppins stared from her to Jason in silence. Then he sniffed.

“I’ll stay till the wind changes,” he said shortly, and he blew out his candle and got into bed.

“That’s all right,” said Michelle, half to herself and half to Jason. But Jason wasn’t listening. He was thinking about all that had happened, and wondering…

And that is how Matteo Poppins came to live at Number Seventeen, Cherry Tree Lukas. And although they sometimes found themselves wishing for the quieter, more ordinary days when Kaleb Nanna ruled the household, everybody, on the whole, was glad of Matteo Poppins’ arrival. Mrs Bianca was glad because, as he arrived by himself and did not hold up the traffic, she had not had to tip the Policewoman. Mr Bianca was glad because he was able to tell everybody that his children’s nurse was so fashionable that he didn’t believe in giving references. Mr Brill and Elias were glad because they could drink strong cups of tea all day in the kitchen and no longer needed to preside at nursery suppers. Robertson Ay was glad, too, because Matteo Poppins had only one pair of shoes, and those he polished himself.

But nobody ever knew what Matteo Poppins felt about it, for Matteo Poppins never told anything…