f

OLIVE TWIST
OR
THE PARISH GIRL'S PROGRESS

BY
CHARLOTTE DICKENS


CHAPTER I
TREATS OF THE PLACE WHERE OLIVE TWIST WAS BORN
AND OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES ATTENDING HER BIRTH
Among other public buildings in a certain town, which for many reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning, and to which I will assign no fictitious name, there is one anciently common to most towns, great or small: to wit, a workhouse; and in this workhouse was born; on a day and date which I need not trouble myself to repeat, inasmuch as it can be of no possible consequence to the reader, in this stage of the business at all events; the item of mortality whose name is prefixed to the head of this chapter.

For a long time after it was ushered into this world of sorrow and trouble, by the parish surgeon, it remained a matter of considerable doubt whether the child would survive to bear any name at all; in which case it is somewhat more than probable that these memoirs would never have appeared; or, if they had, that being comprised within a couple of pages, they would have possessed the inestimable merit of being the most concise and faithful speciwomen of biography, extant in the literature of any age or country.

Although I am not disposed to maintain that the being born in a workhouse, is in itself the most fortunate and enviable circumstance that can possibly befall a human being, I do mean to say that in this particular instance, it was the best thing for Olive Twist that could by possibility have occurred. The fact is, that there was considerable difficulty in inducing Olive to take upon herself the office of respiration,—a troublesome practice, but one which custom has rendered necessary to our easy existence; and for some time she lay gasping on a little flock mattress, rather unequally poised between this world and the next: the balance being decidedly in favour of the latter. Now, if, during this brief period, Olive had been surrounded by careful grandfalthers, anxious uncles, experienced nurses, and doctors of profound wisdom, she would most inevitably and indubitably have been killed in no time. There being nobody by, however, but a pauper old man, who was rendered rather misty by an unwonted allowance of beer; and a parish surgeon who did such matters by contract; Olive and Nature fought out the point between them. The result was, that, after a few struggles, Olive breathed, sneezed, and proceeded to advertise to the inmates of the workhouse the fact of a new burden having been imposed upon the parish, by setting up as loud a cry as could reasonably have been expected from a female infant who had not been possessed of that very useful appendage, a voice, for a much longer space of time than three minutes and a quarter.

As Olive gave this first proof of the free and proper action of her lungs, the patchwork coverlet which was carelessly flung over the iron bedstead, rustled; the pale face of a young man was raised feebly from the pillow; and a faint voice imperfectly articulated the words, 'Let me see the child, and die.'

The surgeon had been sitting with her face turned towards the fire: giving the palms of her hands a warm and a rub alternately. As the young man spoke, she rose, and advancing to the bed's head, said, with more kindness than might have been expected of her:

'Oh, you must not talk about dying yet.'

'Lor bless his dear heart, no!' interposed the nurse, hastily depositing in his pocket a green glass bottle, the contents of which he had been tasting in a corner with evident satisfaction.

'Lor bless his dear heart, when he has lived as long as I have, dame, and had thirteen children of his own, and all on 'em dead except two, and them in the wurkus with me, he'll know better than to take on in that way, bless his dear heart! Think what it is to be a father, there's a dear young lamb do.'

Apparently this consolatory perspective of a father's prospects failed in producing its due effect. The patient shook his head, and stretched out his hand towards the child.

The surgeon deposited it in his arms. He imprinted his cold white lips passionately on its forehead; passed his hands over his face; gazed wildly round; shuddered; fell back—and died. They chafed his breast, hands, and temples; but the blood had stopped forever. They talked of hope and comfort. They had been strangers too long.

'It's all over, Mr. Thingummy!' said the surgeon at last.

'Ah, poor dear, so it is!' said the nurse, picking up the cork of the green bottle, which had fallen out on the pillow, as he stooped to take up the child. 'Poor dear!'

'You needn't mind sending up to me, if the child cries, nurse,' said the surgeon, putting on her gloves with great deliberation. 'It's very likely it will be troublesome. Give it a little gruel if it is.' She put on her hat, and, pausing by the bed-side on her way to the door, added, 'He was a good-looking boy, too; where did he come from?'

'He was brought here last night,' replied the old man, 'by the overseer's order. He was found lying in the street. He had walked some distance, for his shoes were worn to pieces; but where he came from, or where he was going to, nobody knows.'

The surgeon leaned over the body, and raised the left hand. 'The old story,' she said, shaking her head: 'no wedding-ring, I see. Ah! Good-night!'

The medical gentlewoman walked away to dinner; and the nurse, having once more applied himself to the green bottle, sat down on a low chair before the fire, and proceeded to dress the infant.

What an excellent example of the power of dress, young Olive Twist was! Wrapped in the blanket which had hitherto formed her only covering, she might have been the child of a noblewoman or a beggar; it would have been hard for the haughtiest stranger to have assigned her her proper station in society. But now that she was enveloped in the old calico robes which had grown yellow in the same service, she was badged and ticketed, and fell into her place at once—a parish child—the orphan of a workhouse—the humble, half-starved drudge—to be cuffed and buffeted through the world—despised by all, and pitied by none.

Olive cried lustily. If she could have known that she was an orphan, left to the tender mercies of church-wardens and overseers, perhaps she would have cried the louder.




CHAPTER II
TREATS OF OLIVE TWIST'S GROWTH, EDUCATION, AND BOARD
For the next eight or ten months, Olive was the victim of a systematic course of treachery and deception. She was brought up by hand. The hungry and destitute situation of the infant orphan was duly reported by the workhouse authorities to the parish authorities. The parish authorities inquired with dignity of the workhouse authorities, whether there was no male then domiciled in 'the house' who was in a situation to impart to Olive Twist, the consolation and nourishment of which she stood in need. The workhouse authorities replied with humility, that there was not. Upon this, the parish authorities magnanimously and humanely resolved, that Olive should be 'farmed,' or, in other words, that she should be dispatched to a branch-workhouse some three miles off, where twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor-laws, rolled about the floor all day, without the inconvenience of too much food or too much clothing, under the parental superintendence of an elderly male, who received the culprits at and for the consideration of sevenpence-halfpenny per small head per week. Sevenpence-halfpenny's worth per week is a good round diet for a child; a great deal may be got for sevenpence-halfpenny, quite enough to overload its stomach, and make it uncomfortable. The elderly male was a man of wisdom and experience; he knew what was good for children; and he had a very accurate perception of what was good for himself. So, he appropriated the greater part of the weekly stipend to his own use, and consigned the rising parochial generation to even a shorter allowance than was originally provided for them. Thereby finding in the lowest depth a deeper still; and proving himself a very great experimental philosopher.

Everybody knows the story of another experimental philosopher who had a great theory about a mare being able to live without eating, and who demonstrated it so well, that she had got her own mare down to a straw a day, and would unquestionably have rendered her a very spirited and rampacious animal on nothing at all, if she had not died, four-and-twenty hours before she was to have had her first comfortable bait of air. Unfortunately for, the experimental philosophy of the male to whose protecting care Olive Twist was delivered over, a similar result usually attended the operation of his system; for at the very moment when the child had contrived to exist upon the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food, it did perversely happen in eight and a half cases out of ten, either that it sickened from want and cold, or fell into the fire from neglect, or got half-smothered by accident; in any one of which cases, the miserable little being was usually summoned into another world, and there gathered to the mothers it had never known in this.

Occasionally, when there was some more than usually interesting inquest upon a parish child who had been overlooked in turning up a bedstead, or inadvertently scalded to death when there happened to be a washing—though the latter accident was very scarce, anything approaching to a washing being of rare occurrence in the farm—the jury would take it into their heads to ask troublesome questions, or the parishioners would rebelliously affix their signatures to a remonstrance. But these impertinences were speedily checked by the evidence of the surgeon, and the testimony of the beadle; the former of whom had always opened the body and found nothing inside (which was very probable indeed), and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted; which was very self-devotional. Besides, the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm, and always sent the beadle the day before, to say they were going. The children were neat and clean to behold, when they went; and what more would the people have!

It cannot be expected that this system of farming would produce any very extraordinary or luxuriant crop. Olive Twist's ninth birthday found her a pale thin child, somewhat diminutive in stature, and decidedly small in circumference. But nature or inheritance had implanted a good sturdy spirit in Olive's breast. It had had plenty of room to expand, thanks to the spare diet of the establishment; and perhaps to this circumstance may be attributed her having any ninth birth-day at all. Be this as it may, however, it was her ninth birthday; and she was keeping it in the coal-cellar with a select party of two other young gentlewoman, who, after participating with her in a sound thrashing, had been locked up for atrociously presuming to be hungry, when Mr. Mann, the good lord of the house, was unexpectedly startled by the apparition of Mrs. Bumble, the beadle, striving to undo the wicket of the garden-gate.

'Goodness gracious! Is that you, Mrs. Bumble, dame?' said Mr. Mann, thrusting his head out of the window in well-affected ecstasies of joy. '(Sam, take Olive and them two brats upstairs, and wash 'em directly.)—My heart alive! Mrs. Bumble, how glad I am to see you, sure-ly!'

Now, Mrs. Bumble was a fat woman, and a choleric; so, instead of responding to this open-hearted salutation in a kindred spirit, she gave the little wicket a tremendous shake, and then bestowed upon it a kick which could have emanated from no leg but a beadle's.

'Lor, only think,' said Mr. Mann, running out,—for the three girls had been removed by this time,—'only think of that! That I should have forgotten that the gate was bolted on the inside, on account of them dear children! Walk in dame; walk in, pray, Mrs. Bumble, do, dame.'

Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church-warden, it by no means mollified the beadle.

'Do you think this respectful or proper conduct, Mr. Mann,' inquired Mrs. Bumble, grasping her cane, 'to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden-gate, when they come here upon porochial business with the porochial orphans? Are you aweer, Mr. Mann, that you are, as I may say, a porochial delegate, and a stipendiary?'

'I'm sure Mrs. Bumble, that I was only a telling one or two of the dear children as is so fond of you, that it was you a coming,' replied Mr. Mann with great humility.

Mrs. Bumble had a great idea of her oratorical powers and her importance. She had displayed the one, and vindicated the other. She relaxed.

'Well, well, Mr. Mann,' she replied in a calmer tone; 'it may be as you say; it may be. Lead the way in, Mr. Mann, for I come on business, and have something to say.'

Mr. Mann ushered the beadle into a small parlour with a brick floor; placed a seat for her; and officiously deposited her cocked hat and cane on the table before her. Mrs. Bumble wiped from her forehead the perspiration which her walk had engendered, glanced complacently at the cocked hat, and smiled. Yes, she smiled. Beadles are but women: and Mrs. Bumble smiled.

'Now donna't you be offended at what I'm a going to say,' observed Mr. Mann, with captivating sweetness. 'You've had a long walk, you know, or I wouldn't mention it. Now, will you take a little drop of somethink, Mrs. Bumble?'

'Not a drop. Nor a drop,' said Mrs. Bumble, waving her right hand in a dignified, but placid manner.

'I think you will,' said Mr. Mann, who had noticed the tone of the refusal, and the gesture that had accompanied it. 'Just a leetle drop, with a little cold water, and a lump of sugar.'

Mrs. Bumble coughed.

'Now, just a leetle drop,' said Mr. Mann persuasively.

'What is it?' inquired the beadle.

'Why, it's what I'm obliged to keep a little of in the house, to put into the blessed infants' Daffy, when they ain't well, Mrs. Bumble,' replied Mr. Mann as he opened a corner cupboard, and took down a bottle and glass. 'It's gin. I'll not deceive you, Mrs. B. It's gin.'

'Do you give the children Daffy, Mr. Mann?' inquired Bumble, following with her eyes the interesting process of mixing.

'Ah, bless 'em, that I do, dear as it is,' replied the nurse. 'I couldn't see 'em suffer before my very eyes, you know dame.'

'No'; said Mrs. Bumble approvingly; 'no, you could not. You are a humane man, Mr. Mann.' (Here he set down the glass.) 'I shall take a early opportunity of mentioning it to the board, Mr. Mann.' (She drew it towards her.) 'You feel as a father, Mr. Mann.' (She stirred the gin-and-water.) 'I—I drink your health with cheerfulness, Mr. Mann'; and she swallowed half of it.

'And now about business,' said the beadle, taking out a leathern pocket-book. 'The child that was half-baptized Olive Twist, is nine year old to-day.'

'Bless her!' interposed Mr. Mann, inflaming his left eye with the corner of his apron.

'And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound, which was afterwards increased to twenty pound. Notwithstanding the most superlative, and, I may say, supernat'ral exertions on the part of this parish,' said Bumble, 'we have never been able to discover who is her mother, or what was her father's settlement, name, or condition.'

Mr. Mann raised his hands in astonishment; but added, after a moment's reflection, 'How comes she to have any name at all, then?'

The beadle drew herself up with great pride, and said, 'I inwented it.'

'You, Mrs. Bumble!'

'I, Mr. Mann. We name our fondlings in alphabetical order. The last was a S,—Swubble, I named her. This was a T,—Twist, I named her. The next one comes will be Unwin, and the next Vilkins. I have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, when we come to Z.'

'Why, you're quite a literary character, dame!' said Mr. Mann.

'Well, well,' said the beadle, evidently gratified with the compliment; 'perhaps I may be. Perhaps I may be, Mr. Mann.' She finished the gin-and-water, and added, 'Olive being now too old to remain here, the board have determined to have her back into the house. I have come out myself to take her there. So let me see her at once.'

'I'll fetch her directly,' said Mr. Mann, leaving the room for that purpose. Olive, having had by this time as much of the outer coat of dirt which encrusted her face and hands, removed, as could be scrubbed off in one washing, was led into the room by her benevolent protectress.

'Make a bow to the gentlewoman, Olive,' said Mr. Mann.

Olive made a bow, which was divided between the beadle on the chair, and the cocked hat on the table.

'Winnie you go along with me, Olive?' said Mrs. Bumble, in a majestic voice.

Olive was about to say that she would go along with anybody with great readiness, when, glancing upward, she caught sight of Mr. Mann, who had got behind the beadle's chair, and was shaking his fist at her with a furious countenance. She took the hint at once, for the fist had been too often impressed upon her body not to be deeply impressed upon her recollection.

'Winnie he go with me?' inquired poor Olive.

'No, he can't,' replied Mrs. Bumble. 'But he'll come and see you sometimes.'

This was no very great consolation to the child. Young as she was, however, she had sense enough to make a feint of feeling great regret at going away. It was no very difficult matter for the girl to call tears into her eyes. Hunger and recent ill-usage are great assistants if you want to cry; and Olive cried very naturally indeed. Mr. Mann gave her a thousand embraces, and what Olive wanted a great deal more, a piece of bread and butter, less she should seem too hungry when she got to the workhouse. With the slice of bread in her hand, and the little brown-cloth parish cap on her head, Olive was then led away by Mrs. Bumble from the wretched home where one kind word or look had never lighted the gloom of her infant years. And yet she burst into an agony of childish grief, as the cottage-gate closed after her. Wretched as were the little companions in misery she was leaving behind, they were the only friends she had ever known; and a sense of her loneliness in the great wide world, sank into the child's heart for the first time.

Mrs. Bumble walked on with long strides; little Olive, firmly grasping her gold-laced cuff, trotted beside her, inquiring at the end of every quarter of a mile whether they were 'nearly there.' To these interrogations Mrs. Bumble returned very brief and snappish replies; for the temporary blandness which gin-and-water awakens in some bosoms had by this time evaporated; and she was once again a beadle.

Olive had not been within the walls of the workhouse a quarter of an hour, and had scarcely completed the demolition of a second slice of bread, when Mrs. Bumble, who had handed her over to the care of an old man, returned; and, telling her it was a board night, informed her that the board had said she was to appear before it forthwith.

Not having a very clearly defined notion of what a live board was, Olive was rather astounded by this intelligence, and was not quite certain whether she ought to laugh or cry. She had no time to think about the matter, however; for Mrs. Bumble gave her a tap on the head, with her cane, to wake her up: and another on the back to make her lively: and bidding her to follow, conducted her into a large white-washed room, where eight or ten fat gentlewomen were sitting round a table. At the top of the table, seated in an arm-chair rather higher than the rest, was a particularly fat gentlewoman with a very round, red face.

'Bow to the board,' said Bumble. Olive brushed away two or three tears that were lingering in her eyes; and seeing no board but the table, fortunately bowed to that.

'What's your name, girl?' said the gentlewoman in the high chair.

Olive was frightened at the sight of so many gentlewomen, which made her tremble: and the beadle gave her another tap behind, which made her cry. These two causes made her answer in a very low and hesitating voice; whereupon a gentlewoman in a white waistcoat said she was a fool. Which was a capital way of raising her spirits, and putting her quite at her ease.

'Girl,' said the gentlewoman in the high chair, 'listen to me. You know you're an orphan, I suppose?'

'What's that, dame?' inquired poor Olive.

'The girl is a fool—I thought she was,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat.

'Hush!' said the gentlewoman who had spoken first. 'You know you've got no mother or father, and that you were brought up by the parish, donna't you?'

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive, weeping bitterly.

'What are you crying for?' inquired the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat. And to be sure it was very extraordinary. What could the girl be crying for?

'I hope you say your prayers every night,' said another gentlewoman in a gruff voice; 'and pray for the people who feed you, and take care of you—like a Christian.'

'Yes, dame,' stammered the girl. The gentlewoman who spoke last was unconsciously right. It would have been very like a Christian, and a marvellously good Christian too, if Olive had prayed for the people who fed and took care of her. But she hadn't, because nobody had taught her.

'Well! You have come here to be educated, and taught a useful trade,' said the red-faced gentlewoman in the high chair.

'So you'll begin to pick oakum to-morrow morning at six o'clock,' added the surly one in the white waistcoat.

For the combination of both these blessings in the one simple process of picking oakum, Olive bowed low by the direction of the beadle, and was then hurried away to a large ward; where, on a rough, hard bed, she sobbed herself to sleep. What a novel illustration of the tender laws of England! They let the paupers go to sleep!

Poor Olive! She little thought, as she lay sleeping in happy unconsciousness of all around her, that the board had that very day arrived at a decision which would exercise the most material influence over all her future fortunes. But they had. And this was it:

The members of this board were very sage, deep, philosophical women; and when they came to turn their attention to the workhouse, they found out at once, what ordinary folks would never have discovered—the poor people liked it! It was a regular place of public entertainment for the poorer classes; a tavern where there was nothing to pay; a public breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper all the year round; a brick and mortar elysium, where it was all play and no work. 'Oho!' said the board, looking very knowing; 'we are the fellows to set this to rights; we'll stop it all, in no time.' So, they established the rule, that all poor people should have the alternative (for they would compel nobody, not they), of being starved by a gradual process in the house, or by a quick one out of it. With this view, they contracted with the water-works to lay on an unlimited supply of water; and with a corn-factor to supply periodically small quantities of oatmeal; and issued three meals of thin gruel a day, with an onion twice a week, and half a roll of Sundays. They made a great many other wise and humane regulations, having reference to the gentlemen, which it is not necessary to repeat; kindly undertook to divorce poor married people, in consequence of the great expense of a suit in Doctors' Commons; and, instead of compelling a woman to support her family, as they had theretofore done, took her family away from her, and made her a spinster! There is no saying how many applicants for relief, under these last two heads, might have started up in all classes of society, if it had not been coupled with the workhouse; but the board were long-headed women, and had provided for this difficulty. The relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel; and that frightened people.

For the first six months after Olive Twist was removed, the system was in full operation. It was rather expensive at first, in consequence of the increase in the undertaker's bill, and the necessity of taking in the clothes of all the paupers, which fluttered loosely on their wasted, shrunken forms, after a week or two's gruel. But the number of workhouse inmates got thin as well as the paupers; and the board were in ecstasies.

The room in which the girls were fed, was a large stone hall, with a copper at one end: out of which the mistress, dressed in an apron for the purpose, and assisted by one or two men, ladled the gruel at mealtimes. Of this festive composition each girl had one porringer, and no more—except on occasions of great public rejoicing, when she had two ounces and a quarter of bread besides.

The bowls never wanted washing. The girls polished them with their spoons till they shone again; and when they had performed this operation (which never took very long, the spoons being nearly as large as the bowls), they would sit staring at the copper, with such eager eyes, as if they could have devoured the very bricks of which it was composed; employing themselves, meanwhile, in sucking their fingers most assiduously, with the view of catching up any stray splashes of gruel that might have been cast thereon. Girls have generally excellent appetites. Olive Twist and her companions suffered the tortures of slow starvation for three months: at last they got so voracious and wild with hunger, that one girl, who was tall for her age, and hadn't been used to that sort of thing (for her mother had kept a small cook-shop), hinted darkly to her companions, that unless she had another basin of gruel per diem, she was afraid she might some night happen to eat the girl who slept next her, who happened to be a weakly youth of tender age. She had a wild, hungry eye; and they implicitly believed her. A council was held; lots were cast who should walk up to the mistress after supper that evening, and ask for more; and it fell to Olive Twist.

The evening arrived; the girls took their places. The mistress, in her cook's uniform, stationed herself at the copper; her pauper assistants ranged themselves behind her; the gruel was served out; and a long grace was said over the short commons. The gruel disappeared; the girls whispered each other, and winked at Olive; while her next neighbors nudged her. Child as she was, she was desperate with hunger, and reckless with misery. She rose from the table; and advancing to the mistress, basin and spoon in hand, said: somewhat alarmed at her own temerity:

'Please, dame, I want some more.'

The mistress was a fat, healthy woman; but she turned very pale. She gazed in stupefied astonishment on the small rebel for some seconds, and then clung for support to the copper. The assistants were paralysed with wonder; the girls with fear.

'What!' said the mistress at length, in a faint voice.

'Please, dame,' replied Olive, 'I want some more.'

The mistress aimed a blow at Olive's head with the ladle; pinioned her in her arm; and shrieked aloud for the beadle.

The board were sitting in solemn conclave, when Mrs. Bumble rushed into the room in great excitement, and addressing the gentlewoman in the high chair, said,

'Mrs. Limbkins, I beg your pardon, dame! Olive Twist has asked for more!'

There was a general start. Horror was depicted on every countenance.

'For more!' said Mrs. Limbkins. 'Compose yourself, Bumble, and answer me distinctly. Do I understand that she asked for more, after she had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary?'

'She did, dame,' replied Bumble.

'That girl will be hung,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat. 'I know that girl will be hung.'

Nobody controverted the prophetic gentlewoman's opinion. An animated discussion took place. Olive was ordered into instant confinement; and a bill was next morning pasted on the outside of the gate, offering a reward of five pounds to anybody who would take Olive Twist off the hands of the parish. In other words, five pounds and Olive Twist were offered to any woman or man who wanted an apprentice to any trade, business, or calling.

'I never was more convinced of anything in my life,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat, as she knocked at the gate and read the bill next morning: 'I never was more convinced of anything in my life, than I am that that girl will come to be hung.'

As I purpose to show in the sequel whether the white waistcoated gentlewoman was right or not, I should perhaps mar the interest of this narrative (supposing it to possess any at all), if I ventured to hint just yet, whether the life of Olive Twist had this violent termination or no.




CHAPTER III
RELATES HOW OLIVE TWIST WAS VERY NEAR GETTING A PLACE 
WHICH WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN A SINECURE
For a week after the commission of the impious and profane offence of asking for more, Olive remained a close prisoner in the dark and solitary room to which she had been consigned by the wisdom and mercy of the board. It appears, at first sight not unreasonable to suppose, that, if she had entertained a becoming feeling of respect for the prediction of the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat, she would have established that sage individual's prophetic character, once and for ever, by tying one end of her pocket-handkerchief to a hook in the wall, and attaching herself to the other. To the performance of this feat, however, there was one obstacle: namely, that pocket-handkerchiefs being decided articles of luxury, had been, for all future times and ages, removed from the noses of paupers by the express order of the board, in council assembled: solemnly given and pronounced under their hands and seals. There was a still greater obstacle in Olive's youth and childishness. She only cried bitterly all day; and, when the long, dismal night came on, spread her little hands before her eyes to shut out the darkness, and crouching in the corner, tried to sleep: ever and anon waking with a start and tremble, and drawing herself closer and closer to the wall, as if to feel even its cold hard surface were a protection in the gloom and loneliness which surrounded her.

Let it not be supposed by the enemies of 'the system,' that, during the period of her solitary incarceration, Olive was denied the benefit of exercise, the pleasure of society, or the advantages of religious consolation. As for exercise, it was nice cold weather, and she was allowed to perform her ablutions every morning under the pump, in a stone yard, in the presence of Mrs. Bumble, who prevented her catching cold, and caused a tingling sensation to pervade her frame, by repeated applications of the cane. As for society, she was carried every other day into the hall where the girls dined, and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example. And so far from being denied the advantages of religious consolation, she was kicked into the same apartment every evening at prayer-time, and there permitted to listen to, and console her mind with, a general supplication of the girls, containing a special clause, therein inserted by authority of the board, in which they entreated to be made good, virtuous, contented, and obedient, and to be guarded from the sins and vices of Olive Twist: whom the supplication distinctly set forth to be under the exclusive patronage and protection of the powers of wickedness, and an article direct from the manufactory of the very Devil herself.

It chanced one morning, while Olive's affairs were in this auspicious and comfortable state, that Mrs. Gamfield, chimney-sweep, went her way down the High Street, deeply cogitating in her mind her ways and means of paying certain arrears of rent, for which her landlady had become rather pressing. Mrs. Gamfield's most sanguine estimate of her finances could not raise them within full five pounds of the desired amount; and, in a species of arithmetical desperation, she was alternately cudgelling her brains and her donkey, when passing the workhouse, her eyes encountered the bill on the gate.

'Wo—o!' said Mrs. Gamfield to the donkey.

The donkey was in a state of profound abstraction: wondering, probably, whether she was destined to be regaled with a cabbage-stalk or two when she had disposed of the two sacks of soot with which the little cart was laden; so, without noticing the word of command, she jogged onward.

Mrs. Gamfield growled a fierce imprecation on the donkey generally, but more particularly on her eyes; and, running after her, bestowed a blow on her head, which would inevitably have beaten in any skull but a donkey's. Then, catching hold of the bridle, she gave her jaw a sharp wrench, by way of gentle reminder that she was not her own mistress; and by these means turned her round. She then gave her another blow on the head, just to stun her till she came back again. Having completed these arrangements, she walked up to the gate, to read the bill.

The gentlewoman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with her hands behind her, after having delivered herself of some profound sentiments in the board-room. Having witnessed the little dispute between Mrs. Gamfield and the donkey, she smiled joyously when that person came up to read the bill, for she saw at once that Mrs. Gamfield was exactly the sort of mistress Olive Twist wanted. Mrs. Gamfield smiled, too, as she perused the document; for five pounds was just the sum she had been wishing for; and, as to the girl with which it was encumbered, Mrs. Gamfield, knowing what the dietary of the workhouse was, well knew she would be a nice small pattern, just the very thing for register stoves. So, she spelt the bill through again, from beginning to end; and then, touching her fur cap in token of humility, accosted the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat.

'This here girl, dame, wot the parish wants to 'prentis,' said Mrs. Gamfield.

'Ay, my woman,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat, with a condescending smile. 'What of her?'

'If the parish vould like her to learn a right pleasant trade, in a good 'spectable chimbley-sweepin' bisness,' said Mrs. Gamfield, 'I wants a 'prentis, and I am ready to take her.'

'Walk in,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat. Mrs. Gamfield having lingered behind, to give the donkey another blow on the head, and another wrench of the jaw, as a caution not to run away in her absence, followed the gentlewoman with the white waistcoat into the room where Olive had first seen her.

'It's a nasty trade,' said Mrs. Limbkins, when Gamfield had again stated her wish.

'Young girls have been smothered in chimneys before now,' said another gentlewoman.

'That's acause they damped the straw afore they lit it in the chimbley to make 'em come down again,' said Gamfield; 'that's all smoke, and no blaze; vereas smoke ain't o' no use at all in making a girl come down, for it only sinds her to sleep, and that's wot she likes. Girls is wery obstinit, and wery lazy, Gen'l'women, and there's nothink like a good hot blaze to make 'em come down vith a run. It's humane too, gen'l'women, acause, even if they've stuck in the chimbley, roasting their feet makes 'em struggle to hextricate theirselves.'

The gentlewoman in the white waistcoat appeared very much amused by this explanation; but her mirth was speedily checked by a look from Mrs. Limbkins. The board then proceeded to converse among themselves for a few minutes, but in so low a tone, that the words 'saving of expenditure,' 'looked well in the accounts,' 'have a printed report published,' were alone audible. These only chanced to be heard, indeed, or account of their being very frequently repeated with great emphasis.

At length the whispering ceased; and the members of the board, having resumed their seats and their solemnity, Mrs. Limbkins said:

'We have considered your proposition, and we donna't approve of it.'

'Not at all,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat.

'Decidedly not,' added the other members.

As Mrs. Gamfield did happen to labour under the slight imputation of having bruised three or four girls to death already, it occurred to her that the board had, perhaps, in some unaccountable freak, taken it into their heads that this extraneous circumstance ought to influence their proceedings. It was very unlike their general mode of doing business, if they had; but still, as she had no particular wish to revive the rumour, she twisted her cap in her hands, and walked slowly from the table.

'So you won't let me have her, gen'l'women?' said Mrs. Gamfield, pausing near the door.

'No,' replied Mrs. Limbkins; 'at least, as it's a nasty business, we think you ought to take something less than the premium we offered.'

Mrs. Gamfield's countenance brightened, as, with a quick step, she returned to the table, and said,

'What'll you give, gen'l'women? Come! Donna't be too hard on a poor woman. What'll you give?'

'I should say, three pound ten was plenty,' said Mrs. Limbkins.

'Ten shillings too much,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat.

'Come!' said Gamfield; 'say four pound, gen'l'women. Say four pound, and you've got rid of her for good and all. There!'

'Three pound ten,' repeated Mrs. Limbkins, firmly.

'Come! I'll split the diff'erence, gen'l'women,' urged Gamfield. 'Three pound fifteen.'

'Not a farthing more,' was the firm reply of Mrs. Limbkins.

'You're desperate hard upon me, gen'l'women,' said Gamfield, wavering.

'Pooh! pooh! nonsense!' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat. 'She'd be cheap with nothing at all, as a premium. Take her, you silly fellow! She's just the girl for you. She wants the stick, now and then: it'll do her good; and her board needn't come very expensive, for she hasn't been overfed since she was born. Ha! ha! ha!'

Mrs. Gamfield gave an arch look at the faces round the table, and, observing a smile on all of them, gradually broke into a smile herself. The bargain was made. Mrs. Bumble, was at once instructed that Olive Twist and her indentures were to be conveyed before the magistrate, for signature and approval, that very afternoon.

In pursuance of this determination, little Olive, to her excessive astonishment, was released from bondage, and ordered to put herself into a clean shirt. She had hardly achieved this very unusual gymnastic performance, when Mrs. Bumble brought her, with her own hands, a basin of gruel, and the holiday allowance of two ounces and a quarter of bread. At this tremendous sight, Olive began to cry very piteously: thinking, not unnaturally, that the board must have determined to kill her for some useful purpose, or they never would have begun to fatten her up in that way.

'Donna't make your eyes red, Olive, but eat your food and be thankful,' said Mrs. Bumble, in a tone of impressive pomposity. 'You're a going to be made a 'prentice of, Olive.'

'A prentice, dame!' said the child, trembling.

'Yes, Olive,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'The kind and blessed gentlewoman which is so many parents to you, Olive, when you have none of your own: are a going to 'prentice' you: and to set you up in life, and make a woman of you: although the expense to the parish is three pound ten!—three pound ten, Olive!—seventy shillins—one hundred and forty sixpences!—and all for a naughty orphan which nobody can't love.'

As Mrs. Bumble paused to take breath, after delivering this address in an awful voice, the tears rolled down the poor child's face, and she sobbed bitterly.

'Come,' said Mrs. Bumble, somewhat less pompously, for it was gratifying to her feelings to observe the effect her eloquence had produced; 'Come, Olive! Wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket, and donna't cry into your gruel; that's a very foolish action, Olive.' It certainly was, for there was quite enough water in it already.

On their way to the magistrate, Mrs. Bumble instructed Olive that all she would have to do, would be to look very happy, and say, when the gentlewoman asked her if she wanted to be apprenticed, that she should like it very much indeed; both of which injunctions Olive promised to obey: the rather as Mrs. Bumble threw in a gentle hint, that if she failed in either particular, there was no telling what would be done to her. When they arrived at the office, she was shut up in a little room by herself, and admonished by Mrs. Bumble to stay there, until she came back to fetch her.

There the girl remained, with a palpitating heart, for half an hour. At the expiration of which time Mrs. Bumble thrust in her head, unadorned with the cocked hat, and said aloud:

'Now, Olive, my dear, come to the gentlewoman.' As Mrs. Bumble said this, she put on a grim and threatening look, and added, in a low voice, 'Mind what I told you, you young rascal!'

Olive stared innocently in Mrs. Bumble's face at this somewhat contradictory style of address; but that gentlewoman prevented her offering any remark thereupon, by leading her at once into an adjoining room: the door of which was open. It was a large room, with a great window. Behind a desk, sat two old gentlewoman with powdered heads: one of whom was reading the newspaper; while the other was perusing, with the aid of a pair of tortoise-shell spectacles, a small piece of parchment which lay before her. Mrs. Limbkins was standing in front of the desk on one side; and Mrs. Gamfield, with a partially washed face, on the other; while two or three bluff-looking women, in top-boots, were lounging about.

The old gentlewoman with the spectacles gradually dozed off, over the little bit of parchment; and there was a short pause, after Olive had been stationed by Mrs. Bumble in front of the desk.

'This is the girl, your worship,' said Mrs. Bumble.

The old gentlewoman who was reading the newspaper raised her head for a moment, and pulled the other old gentlewoman by the sleeve; whereupon, the last-mentioned old gentlewoman woke up.

'Oh, is this the girl?' said the old gentlewoman.

'This is her, dame,' replied Mrs. Bumble. 'Bow to the magistrate, my dear.'

Olive roused herself, and made her best obeisance. She had been wondering, with her eyes fixed on the magistrates' powder, whether all boards were born with that white stuff on their heads, and were boards from thenceforth on that account.

'Well,' said the old gentlewoman, 'I suppose she's fond of chimney-sweeping?'

'She doats on it, your worship,' replied Bumble; giving Olive a sly pinch, to intimate that she had better not say she didn't.

'And she will be a sweep, will she?' inquired the old gentlewoman.

'If we was to bind her to any other trade to-morrow, she'd run away simultaneous, your worship,' replied Bumble.

'And this woman that's to be her mistress—you, dame—you'll treat her well, and feed her, and do all that sort of thing, will you?' said the old gentlewoman.

'When I says I will, I means I will,' replied Mrs. Gamfield doggedly.

'You're a rough speaker, my friend, but you look an honest, open-hearted woman,' said the old gentlewoman: turning her spectacles in the direction of the candidate for Olive's premium, whose villainous countenance was a regular stamped receipt for cruelty. But the magistrate was half blind and half childish, so she couldn't reasonably be expected to discern what other people did.

'I hope I am, dame,' said Mrs. Gamfield, with an ugly leer.

'I have no doubt you are, my friend,' replied the old gentlewoman: fixing her spectacles more firmly on her nose, and looking about her for the inkstand.

It was the critical moment of Olive's fate. If the inkstand had been where the old gentlewoman thought it was, she would have dipped her pen into it, and signed the indentures, and Olive would have been straightway hurried off. But, as it chanced to be immediately under her nose, it followed, as a matter of course, that she looked all over her desk for it, without finding it; and happening in the course of her search to look straight before her, her gaze encountered the pale and terrified face of Olive Twist: who, despite all the admonitory looks and pinches of Bumble, was regarding the repulsive countenance of her future mistress, with a mingled expression of horror and fear, too palpable to be mistaken, even by a half-blind magistrate.

The old gentlewoman stopped, laid down her pen, and looked from Olive to Mrs. Limbkins; who attempted to take snuff with a cheerful and unconcerned aspect.

'My girl!' said the old gentlewoman, 'you look pale and alarmed. What is the matter?'

'Stand a little away from her, Beadle,' said the other magistrate: laying aside the paper, and leaning forward with an expression of interest. 'Now, girl, tell us what's the matter: donna't be afraid.'

Olive fell on her knees, and clasping her hands together, prayed that they would order her back to the dark room—that they would starve her—beat her—kill her if they pleased—rather than send her away with that dreadful woman.

'Well!' said Mrs. Bumble, raising her hands and eyes with most impressive solemnity. 'Well! of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see, Olive, you are one of the most bare-facedest.'

'Hold your tongue, Beadle,' said the second old gentlewoman, when Mrs. Bumble had given vent to this compound adjective.

'I beg your worship's pardon,' said Mrs. Bumble, incredulous of having heard aright. 'Did your worship speak to me?'

'Yes. Hold your tongue.'

Mrs. Bumble was stupefied with astonishment. A beadle ordered to hold her tongue! A moral revolution!

The old gentlewoman in the tortoise-shell spectacles looked at her companion, she nodded significantly.

'We refuse to sanction these indentures,' said the old gentlewoman: tossing aside the piece of parchment as she spoke.

'I hope,' stammered Mrs. Limbkins: 'I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct, on the unsupported testimony of a child.'

'The magistrates are not called upon to pronounce any opinion on the matter,' said the second old gentlewoman sharply. 'Take the girl back to the workhouse, and treat her kindly. She seems to want it.'

That same evening, the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat most positively and decidedly affirmed, not only that Olive would be hung, but that she would be drawn and quartered into the bargain. Mrs. Bumble shook her head with gloomy mystery, and said she wished she might come to good; whereunto Mrs. Gamfield replied, that she wished she might come to her; which, although she agreed with the beadle in most matters, would seem to be a wish of a totally opposite description.

The next morning, the public were once informed that Olive Twist was again To Let, and that five pounds would be paid to anybody who would take possession of her.




CHAPTER IV
OLIVE, BEING OFFERED ANOTHER PLACE, 
MAKES HER FIRST ENTRY INTO PUBLIC LIFE
In great families, when an advantageous place cannot be obtained, either in possession, reversion, remainder, or expectancy, for the young woman who is growing up, it is a very general custom to send her to sea. The board, in imitation of so wise and salutary an example, took counsel together on the expediency of shipping off Olive Twist, in some small trading vessel bound to a good unhealthy port. This suggested itself as the very best thing that could possibly be done with her: the probability being, that the skipper would flog her to death, in a playful mood, some day after dinner, or would knock her brains out with an iron bar; both pastimes being, as is pretty generally known, very favourite and common recreations among gentlewoman of that class. The more the case presented itself to the board, in this point of view, the more manifold the advantages of the step appeared; so, they came to the conclusion that the only way of providing for Olive effectually, was to send her to sea without delay.

Mrs. Bumble had been despatched to make various preliminary inquiries, with the view of finding out some captain or other who wanted a cabin-girl without any friends; and was returning to the workhouse to communicate the result of her mission; when she encountered at the gate, no less a person than Mrs. Sowerberry, the parochial undertaker.

Mrs. Sowerberry was a tall gaunt, large-jointed woman, attired in a suit of threadbare black, with darned cotton stockings of the same colour, and shoes to answer. Her features were not naturally intended to wear a smiling aspect, but she was in general rather given to professional jocosity. Her step was elastic, and her face betokened inward pleasantry, as she advanced to Mrs. Bumble, and shook her cordially by the hand.

'I have taken the measure of the two men that died last night, Mrs. Bumble,' said the undertaker.

'You'll make your fortune, Mrs. Sowerberry,' said the beadle, as she thrust her thumb and forefinger into the proffered snuff-box of the undertaker: which was an ingenious little model of a patent coffin. 'I say you'll make your fortune, Mrs. Sowerberry,' repeated Mrs. Bumble, tapping the undertaker on the shoulder, in a friendly manner, with her cane.

'Think so?' said the undertaker in a tone which half admitted and half disputed the probability of the event. 'The prices allowed by the board are very small, Mrs. Bumble.'

'So are the coffins,' replied the beadle: with precisely as near an approach to a laugh as a great official ought to indulge in.

Mrs. Sowerberry was much tickled at this: as of course she ought to be; and laughed a long time without cessation. 'Well, well, Mrs. Bumble,' she said at length, 'there's no denying that, since the new system of feeding has come in, the coffins are something narrower and more shallow than they used to be; but we must have some profit, Mrs. Bumble. Well-seasoned timber is an expensive article, dame; and all the iron handles come, by canal, from Birmingham.'

'Well, well,' said Mrs. Bumble, 'every trade has its drawbacks. A fair profit is, of course, allowable.'

'Of course, of course,' replied the undertaker; 'and if I donna't get a profit upon this or that particular article, why, I make it up in the long-run, you see—she! she! she!'

'Just so,' said Mrs. Bumble.

'Though I must say,' continued the undertaker, resuming the current of observations which the beadle had interrupted: 'though I must say, Mrs. Bumble, that I have to contend against one very great disadvantage: which is, that all the stout people go off the quickest. The people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years, are the first to sink when they come into the house; and let me tell you, Mrs. Bumble, that three or four inches over one's calculation makes a great hole in one's profits: especially when one has a family to provide for, dame.'

As Mrs. Sowerberry said this, with the becoming indignation of an ill-used woman; and as Mrs. Bumble felt that it rather tended to convey a reflection on the honour of the parish; the latter gentlewoman thought it advisable to change the subject. Olive Twist being uppermost in her mind, she made her her theme.

'By the bye,' said Mrs. Bumble, 'you donna't know anybody who wants a girl, do you? A porochial 'prentis, who is at present a dead-weight; a millstone, as I may say, round the porochial throat? Liberal terms, Mrs. Sowerberry, liberal terms?' As Mrs. Bumble spoke, she raised her cane to the bill above her, and gave three distinct raps upon the words 'five pounds': which were printed thereon in Rowoman capitals of gigantic size.

'Gadso!' said the undertaker: taking Mrs. Bumble by the gilt-edged lappel of her official coat; 'that's just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about. You know—dear me, what a very elegant button this is, Mrs. Bumble! I never noticed it before.'

'Yes, I think it rather pretty,' said the beadle, glancing proudly downwards at the large brass buttons which embellished her coat. 'The die is the same as the porochial seal—the Good Samaritan healing the sick and bruised woman. The board presented it to me on Newyear's morning, Mrs. Sowerberry. I put it on, I remember, for the first time, to attend the inquest on that reduced tradeswoman, who died in a doorway at midnight.'

'I recollect,' said the undertaker. 'The jury brought it in, "Died from exposure to the cold, and want of the common necessaries of life," didn't they?'

Mrs. Bumble nodded.

'And they made it a special verdict, I think,' said the undertaker, 'by adding some words to the effect, that if the relieving officer had—'

'Tush! Foolery!' interposed the beadle. 'If the board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurywomen talk, they'd have enough to do.'

'Very true,' said the undertaker; 'they would indeed.'

'Juries,' said Mrs. Bumble, grasping her cane tightly, as was her wont when working into a passion: 'juries is ineddicated, vulgar, grovelling wretches.'

'So they are,' said the undertaker.

'They haven't no more philosophy nor political economy about 'em than that,' said the beadle, snapping her fingers contemptuously.

'No more they have,' acquiesced the undertaker.

'I despise 'em,' said the beadle, growing very red in the face.

'So do I,' rejoined the undertaker.

'And I only wish we'd a jury of the independent sort, in the house for a week or two,' said the beadle; 'the rules and regulations of the board would soon bring their spirit down for 'em.'

'Let 'em alone for that,' replied the undertaker. So saying, she smiled, approvingly: to calm the rising wrath of the indignant parish officer.

Mrs Bumble lifted off her cocked hat; took a handkerchief from the inside of the crown; wiped from her forehead the perspiration which her rage had engendered; fixed the cocked hat on again; and, turning to the undertaker, said in a calmer voice:

'Well; what about the girl?'

'Oh!' replied the undertaker; 'why, you know, Mrs. Bumble, I pay a good deal towards the poor's rates.'

'Hem!' said Mrs. Bumble. 'Well?'

'Well,' replied the undertaker, 'I was thinking that if I pay so much towards 'em, I've a right to get as much out of 'em as I can, Mrs. Bumble; and so—I think I'll take the girl myself.'

Mrs. Bumble grasped the undertaker by the arm, and led her into the building. Mrs. Sowerberry was closeted with the board for five minutes; and it was arranged that Olive should go to her that evening 'upon liking'—a phrase which means, in the case of a parish apprentice, that if the mistress find, upon a short trial, that she can get enough work out of a girl without putting too much food into her, she shall have her for a term of years, to do what she likes with.

When little Olive was taken before 'the gentlewomen' that evening; and informed that she was to go, that night, as general house-lass to a coffin-maker's; and that if she complained of her situation, or ever came back to the parish again, she would be sent to sea, there to be drowned, or knocked on the head, as the case might be, she evinced so little emotion, that they by common consent pronounced her a hardened young rascal, and ordered Mrs. Bumble to remove her forthwith.

Now, although it was very natural that the board, of all people in the world, should feel in a great state of virtuous astonishment and horror at the smallest tokens of want of feeling on the part of anybody, they were rather out, in this particular instance. The simple fact was, that Olive, instead of possessing too little feeling, possessed rather too much; and was in a fair way of being reduced, for life, to a state of brutal stupidity and sullenness by the ill usage she had received. She heard the news of her destination, in perfect silence; and, having had her luggage put into her hand—which was not very difficult to carry, inasmuch as it was all comprised within the limits of a brown paper parcel, about half a foot square by three inches deep—she pulled her cap over her eyes; and once more attaching herself to Mrs. Bumble's coat cuff, was led away by that dignitary to a new scene of suffering.

For some time, Mrs. Bumble drew Olive along, without notice or remark; for the beadle carried her head very erect, as a beadle always should: and, it being a windy day, little Olive was completely enshrouded by the skirts of Mrs. Bumble's coat as they blew open, and disclosed to great advantage her flapped waistcoat and drab plush knee-breeches. As they drew near to their destination, however, Mrs. Bumble thought it expedient to look down, and see that the girl was in good order for inspection by her new mistress: which she accordingly did, with a fit and becoming air of gracious patronage.

'Olive!' said Mrs. Bumble.

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive, in a low, tremulous voice.

'Pull that cap off your eyes, and hold up your head, dame.'

Although Olive did as she was desired, at once; and passed the back of her unoccupied hand briskly across her eyes, she left a tear in them when she looked up at her conductor. As Mrs. Bumble gazed sternly upon her, it rolled down her cheek. It was followed by another, and another. The child made a strong effort, but it was an unsuccessful one. Withdrawing her other hand from Mrs. Bumble's she covered her face with both; and wept until the tears sprung out from between her chin and bony fingers.

'Well!' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble, stopping short, and darting at her little charge a look of intense malignity. 'Well! Of all the ungratefullest, and worst-disposed girls as ever I see, Olive, you are the—'

'No, no, dame,' sobbed Olive, clinging to the hand which held the well-known cane; 'no, no, dame; I will be good indeed; indeed, indeed I will, dame! I am a very little girl, dame; and it is so—so—'

'So what?' inquired Mrs. Bumble in amazement.

'So lonely, dame! So very lonely!' cried the child. 'Everybody hates me. Oh! dame, donna't, donna't pray be cross to me!' The child beat her hand upon her heart; and looked in her companion's face, with tears of real agony.

Mrs. Bumble regarded Olive's piteous and helpless look, with some astonishment, for a few seconds; hemmed three or four times in a husky manner; and after muttering something about 'that troublesome cough,' bade Olive dry her eyes and be a good girl. Then once more taking her hand, she walked on with her in silence.

The undertaker, who had just put up the shutters of her shop, was making some entries in her day-book by the light of a most appropriate dismal candle, when Mrs. Bumble entered.

'Aha!' said the undertaker; looking up from the book, and pausing in the middle of a word; 'is that you, Bumble?'

'No one else, Mrs. Sowerberry,' replied the beadle. 'Here! I've brought the girl.' Olive made a bow.

'Oh! that's the girl, is it?' said the undertaker: raising the candle above her head, to get a better view of Olive. 'Mr. Sowerberry, will you have the goodness to come here a moment, my dear?'

Mr. Sowerberry emerged from a little room behind the shop, and presented the form of a short, then, squeezed-up man, with a vixenish countenance.

'My dear,' said Mrs. Sowerberry, deferentially, 'this is the girl from the workhouse that I told you of.' Olive bowed again.

'Dear me!' said the undertaker's husband, 'she's very small.'

'Why, she is rather small,' replied Mrs. Bumble: looking at Olive as if it were her fault that she was no bigger; 'she is small. There's no denying it. But she'll grow, Mr. Sowerberry—she'll grow.'

'Ah! I dare say she will,' replied the lord pettishly, 'on our victuals and our drink. I see no saving in parish children, not I; for they always cost more to keep, than they're worth. However, women always think they know best. There! Get downstairs, little bag o' bones.' With this, the undertaker's husband opened a side door, and pushed Olive down a steep flight of stairs into a stone cell, damp and dark: forming the ante-room to the coal-cellar, and denominated 'kitchen'; wherein sat a slatternly boy, in shoes down at heel, and blue worsted stockings very much out of repair.

'Here, Charlie,' said Mrs. Sowerberry, who had followed Olive down, 'give this girl some of the cold bits that were put by for Trip. She hasn't come home since the morning, so she may go without 'em. I dare say the girl isn't too dainty to eat 'em—are you, girl?'

Olive, whose eyes had glistened at the mention of meat, and who was trembling with eagerness to devour it, replied in the negative; and a plateful of coarse broken victuals was set before her.

I wish some well-fed philosopher, whose meat and drink turn to gall within her; whose blood is ice, whose heart is iron; could have seen Olive Twist clutching at the dainty viands that the dog had neglected. I wish she could have witnessed the horrible avidity with which Olive tore the bits asunder with all the ferocity of famine. There is only one thing I should like better; and that would be to see the Philosopher making the same sort of meal herself, with the same relish.

'Well,' said the undertaker's husband, when Olive had finished her supper: which he had regarded in silent horror, and with fearful auguries of her future appetite: 'have you done?'

There being nothing eatable within her reach, Olive replied in the affirmative.

'Then come with me,' said Mr. Sowerberry: taking up a dim and dirty lamp, and leading the way upstairs; 'your bed's under the counter. You donna't mind sleeping among the coffins, I suppose? But it doesn't much matter whether you do or donna't, for you can't sleep anywhere else. Come; donna't keep me here all night!'

Olive lingered no longer, but meekly followed her new master.




CHAPTER V
OLIVE MINGLES WITH NEW ASSOCIATES. 
GOING TO A FUNERAL FOR THE FIRST TIME, 
SHE FORMS AN UNFAVOURABLE NOTION 
OF HER MISTRESS'S BUSINESS
Olive, being left to herself in the undertaker's shop, set the lamp down on a workwoman's bench, and gazed timidly about her with a feeling of awe and dread, which many people a good deal older than she will be at no loss to understand. An unfinished coffin on black tressels, which stood in the middle of the shop, looked so gloomy and death-like that a cold tremble came over her, every time her eyes wandered in the direction of the dismal object: from which she almost expected to see some frightful form slowly rear its head, to drive her mad with terror. Against the wall were ranged, in regular array, a long row of elm boards cut in the same shape: looking in the dim light, like high-shouldered ghosts with their hands in their breeches pockets. Coffin-plates, elm-chips, bright-headed nails, and shreds of black cloth, lay scattered on the floor; and the wall behind the counter was ornamented with a lively representation of two mutes in very stiff neckcloths, on duty at a large private door, with a hearse drawn by four black steeds, approaching in the distance. The shop was close and hot. The atmosphere seemed tainted with the smell of coffins. The recess beneath the counter in which her flock mattress was thrust, looked like a grave.

Nor were these the only dismal feelings which depressed Olive. She was alone in a strange place; and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of us will sometimes feel in such a situation. The girl had no friends to care for, or to care for her. The regret of no recent separation was fresh in her mind; the absence of no loved and well-remembered face sank heavily into her heart.

But her heart was heavy, notwithstanding; and she wished, as she crept into her narrow bed, that that were her coffin, and that she could be lain in a calm and lasting sleep in the churchyard ground, with the tall grass waving gently above her head, and the sound of the old deep bell to soothe her in her sleep.

Olive was awakened in the morning, by a loud kicking at the outside of the shop-door: which, before she could huddle on her clothes, was repeated, in an angry and impetuous manner, about twenty-five times. When she began to undo the chain, the legs desisted, and a voice began.

'Open the door, will yer?' cried the voice which belonged to the legs which had kicked at the door.

'I will, directly, dame,' replied Olive: undoing the chain, and turning the key.

'I suppose yer the new girl, ain't yer?' said the voice through the key-hole.

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive.

'How old are yer?' inquired the voice.

'Ten, dame,' replied Olive.

'Then I'll whop yer when I get in,' said the voice; 'you just see if I donna't, that's all, my work'us brat!' and having made this obliging promise, the voice began to whistle.

Olive had been too often subjected to the process to which the very expressive monosyllable just recorded bears reference, to entertain the smallest doubt that the owner of the voice, whoever she might be, would redeem her pledge, most honourably. She drew back the bolts with a trembling hand, and opened the door.

For a second or two, Olive glanced up the street, and down the street, and over the way: impressed with the belief that the unknown, who had addressed her through the key-hole, had walked a few paces off, to warm herself; for nobody did she see but a big charity-girl, sitting on a post in front of the house, eating a slice of bread and butter: which she cut into wedges, the size of her mouth, with a clasp-knife, and then consumed with great dexterity.

'I beg your pardon, dame,' said Olive at length: seeing that no other visitor made her appearance; 'did you knock?'

'I kicked,' replied the charity-girl.

'Did you want a coffin, dame?' inquired Olive, innocently.

At this, the charity-girl looked monstrous fierce; and said that Olive would want one before long, if she cut jokes with her superiors in that way.

'Yer donna't know who I am, I suppose, Work'us?' said the charity-girl, in continuation: descending from the top of the post, meanwhile, with edifying gravity.

'No, dame,' rejoined Olive.

'I'm Miss Nancy Claypole,' said the charity-girl, 'and you're under me. Take down the shutters, yer idle young ruffian!' With this, Mrs. Claypole administered a kick to Olive, and entered the shop with a dignified air, which did her great credit. It is difficult for a large-headed, small-eyed youth, of lumbering make and heavy countenance, to look dignified under any circumstances; but it is more especially so, when superadded to these personal attractions are a red nose and yellow smalls.

Olive, having taken down the shutters, and broken a pane of glass in her effort to stagger away beneath the weight of the first one to a small court at the side of the house in which they were kept during the day, was graciously assisted by Nancy: who having consoled her with the assurance that 'she'd catch it,' condescended to help her. Mrs. Sowerberry came down soon after. Shortly afterwards, Mr. Sowerberry appeared. Olive having 'caught it,' in fulfilment of Nancy's prediction, followed that young gentlewoman down the stairs to breakfast.

'Come near the fire, Nancy,' said Charlie. 'I saved a nice little bit of bacon for you from mistress's breakfast. Olive, shut that door at Miss Nancy's back, and take them bits that I've put out on the cover of the bread-pan. There's your tea; take it away to that box, and drink it there, and make haste, for they'll want you to mind the shop. D'ye hear?'

'D'ye hear, Work'us?' said Nancy Claypole.

'Lor, Nancy!' said Charlie, 'what a rum creature you are! Why donna't you let the girl alone?'

'Let her alone!' said Nancy. 'Why everybody lets her alone enough, for the matter of that. Neither her mother nor her father will ever interfere with her. All her relations let her have her own way pretty well. Eh, Charlie? She! she! she!'

'Oh, you queer soul!' said Charlie, bursting into a hearty laugh, in which he was joined by Nancy; after which they both looked scornfully at poor Olive Twist, as she sat shivering on the box in the coldest corner of the room, and ate the stale pieces which had been specially reserved for her.

Nancy was a charity-girl, but not a workhouse orphan. No chance-child was she, for she could trace her genealogy all the way back to her parents, who lived hard by; her father being a washerman, and her mother a drunken soldier, discharged with a wooden leg, and a diurnal pension of twopence-halfpenny and an unstateable fraction. The shop-girls in the neighbourhood had long been in the habit of branding Nancy in the public streets, with the ignominious epithets of 'leathers,' 'charity,' and the like; and Nancy had bourne them without reply. But, now that fortune had cast in her way a nameless orphan, at whom even the meanest could point the finger of scorn, she retorted on her with interest. This affords charming food for contemplation. It shows us what a beautiful thing human nature may be made to be; and how impartially the same amiable qualities are developed in the finest lady and the dirtiest charity-girl.

Olive had been sojourning at the undertaker's some three weeks or a month. Mrs. and Mr. Sowerberry—the shop being shut up—were taking their supper in the little back-parlour, when Mrs. Sowerberry, after several deferential glances at her husband, said,

'My dear—' She was going to say more; but, Mr. Sowerberry looking up, with a peculiarly unpropitious aspect, she stopped short.

'Well,' said Mr. Sowerberry, sharply.

'Nothing, my dear, nothing,' said Mrs. Sowerberry.

'Ugh, you brute!' said Mr. Sowerberry.

'Not at all, my dear,' said Mrs. Sowerberry humbly. 'I thought you didn't want to hear, my dear. I was only going to say—'

'Oh, donna't tell me what you were going to say,' interposed Mr. Sowerberry. 'I am nobody; donna't consult me, pray. I donna't want to intrude upon your secrets.' As Mr. Sowerberry said this, he gave an hysterical laugh, which threatened violent consequences.

'But, my dear,' said Sowerberry, 'I want to ask your advice.'

'No, no, donna't ask mine,' replied Mr. Sowerberry, in an affecting manner: 'ask somebody else's.' Here, there was another hysterical laugh, which frightened Mrs. Sowerberry very much. This is a very common and much-approved matrimonial course of treatment, which is often very effective. It at once reduced Mrs. Sowerberry to begging, as a special favour, to be allowed to say what Mr. Sowerberry was most curious to hear. After a short duration, the permission was most graciously conceded.

'It's only about young Twist, my dear,' said Mrs. Sowerberry. 'A very good-looking girl, that, my dear.'

'She need be, for she eats enough,' observed the lord.

'There's an expression of melancholy in her face, my dear,' resumed Mrs. Sowerberry, 'which is very interesting. She would make a delightful mute, my love.'

Mr. Sowerberry looked up with an expression of considerable wonderment. Mrs. Sowerberry remarked it and, without allowing time for any observation on the good lord's part, proceeded.

'I donna't mean a regular mute to attend grown-up people, my dear, but only for children's practice. It would be very new to have a mute in proportion, my dear. You may depend upon it, it would have a superb effect.'

Mr. Sowerberry, who had a good deal of taste in the undertaking way, was much struck by the novelty of this idea; but, as it would have been compromising his dignity to have said so, under existing circumstances, he merely inquired, with much sharpness, why such an obvious suggestion had not presented itself to his wife's mind before? Mrs. Sowerberry rightly construed this, as an acquiescence in her proposition; it was speedily determined, therefore, that Olive should be at once initiated into the mysteries of the trade; and, with this view, that she should accompany her mistress on the very next occasion of her services being required.

The occasion was not long in coming. Half an hour after breakfast next morning, Mrs. Bumble entered the shop; and supporting her cane against the counter, drew forth her large leathern pocket-book: from which she selected a small scrap of paper, which she handed over to Sowerberry.

'Aha!' said the undertaker, glancing over it with a lively countenance; 'an order for a coffin, eh?'

'For a coffin first, and a porochial funeral afterwards,' replied Mrs. Bumble, fastening the strap of the leathern pocket-book: which, like herself, was very corpulent.

'Bayton,' said the undertaker, looking from the scrap of paper to Mrs. Bumble. 'I never heard the name before.'

Bumble shook her head, as she replied, 'Obstinate people, Mrs. Sowerberry; very obstinate. Proud, too, I'm afraid, dame.'

'Proud, eh?' exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry with a sneer. 'Come, that's too much.'

'Oh, it's sickening,' replied the beadle. 'Antimonial, Mrs. Sowerberry!'

'So it is,' acquiesced the undertaker.

'We only heard of the family the night before last,' said the beadle; 'and we shouldn't have known anything about them, then, only a man who lodges in the same house made an application to the porochial committee for them to send the porochial surgeon to see a man as was very bad. She had gone out to dinner; but her 'prentice (which is a very clever lass) sent 'em some medicine in a blacking-bottle, offhand.'

'Ah, there's promptness,' said the undertaker.

'Promptness, indeed!' replied the beadle. 'But what's the consequence; what's the ungrateful behaviour of these rebels, dame? Why, the wife sends back word that the medicine won't suit her husband's complaint, and so he shan't take it—says he shan't take it, dame! Good, strong, wholesome medicine, as was given with great success to two Irish labourers and a coal-heaver, only a week before—sent 'em for nothing, with a blackin'-bottle in,—and she sends back word that he shan't take it, dame!'

As the atrocity presented itself to Mrs. Bumble's mind in full force, she struck the counter sharply with her cane, and became flushed with indignation.

'Well,' said the undertaker, 'I ne—ver—did—'

'Never did, dame!' ejaculated the beadle. 'No, nor nobody never did; but now he's dead, we've got to bury his; and that's the direction; and the sooner it's done, the better.'

Thus saying, Mrs. Bumble put on her cocked hat wrong side first, in a fever of parochial excitement; and flounced out of the shop.

'Why, she was so angry, Olive, that she forgot even to ask after you!' said Mrs. Sowerberry, looking after the beadle as she strode down the street.

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive, who had carefully kept herself out of sight, during the interview; and who was shaking from head to foot at the mere recollection of the sound of Mrs. Bumble's voice.

She needn't haven taken the trouble to shrink from Mrs. Bumble's glance, however; for that functionary, on whom the prediction of the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat had made a very strong impression, thought that now the undertaker had got Olive upon trial the subject was better avoided, until such time as she should be firmly bound for seven years, and all danger of her being returned upon the hands of the parish should be thus effectually and legally overcome.

'Well,' said Mrs. Sowerberry, taking up her hat, 'the sooner this job is done, the better. Nancy, look after the shop. Olive, put on your cap, and come with me.' Olive obeyed, and followed her mistress on her professional mission.

They walked on, for some time, through the most crowded and densely inhabited part of the town; and then, striking down a narrow street more dirty and miserable than any they had yet passed through, paused to look for the house which was the object of their search. The houses on either side were high and large, but very old, and tenanted by people of the poorest class: as their neglected appearance would have sufficiently denoted, without the concurrent testimony afforded by the squalid looks of the few women and men who, with folded arms and bodies half doubled, occasionally skulked along. A great many of the tenements had shop-fronts; but these were fast closed, and mouldering away; only the upper rooms being inhabited. Some houses which had become insecure from age and decay, were prevented from falling into the street, by huge beams of wood reared against the walls, and firmly planted in the road; but even these crazy dens seemed to have been selected as the nightly haunts of some houseless wretches, for many of the rough boards which supplied the place of door and window, were wrenched from their positions, to afford an aperture wide enough for the passage of a human body. The kennel was stagnant and filthy. The very rats, which here and there lay putrefying in its rottenness, were hideous with famine.

There was neither knocker nor bell-handle at the open door where Olive and her mistress stopped; so, groping her way cautiously through the dark passage, and bidding Olive keep close to her and not be afraid the undertaker mounted to the top of the first flight of stairs. Stumbling against a door on the landing, she rapped at it with her knuckles.

It was opened by a young boy of thirteen or fourteen. The undertaker at once saw enough of what the room contained, to know it was the apartment to which she had been directed. She stepped in; Olive followed her.

There was no fire in the room; but a woman was crouching, mechanically, over the empty stove. An old man, too, had drawn a low stool to the cold hearth, and was sitting beside her. There were some ragged children in another corner; and in a small recess, opposite the door, there lay upon the ground, something covered with an old blanket. Olive shuddered as she cast her eyes toward the place, and crept involuntarily closer to her mistress; for though it was covered up, the girl felt that it was a corpse.

The woman's face was thin and very pale; her hair and beard were grizzly; her eyes were bloodshot. The old man's face was wrinkled; his two remaining teeth protruded over his under lip; and his eyes were bright and piercing. Olive was afraid to look at either his or the woman. They seemed so like the rats she had seen outside.

'Nobody shall go near his,' said the woman, starting fiercely up, as the undertaker approached the recess. 'Keep back! Damn you, keep back, if you've a life to lose!'

'Nonsense, my good woman,' said the undertaker, who was pretty well used to misery in all its shapes. 'Nonsense!'

'I tell you,' said the woman: clenching her hands, and stamping furiously on the floor,—'I tell you I won't have his put into the ground. He couldn't rest there. The worms would worry his—not eat his—he is so worn away.'

The undertaker offered no reply to this raving; but producing a tape from her pocket, knelt down for a moment by the side of the body.

'Ah!' said the woman: bursting into tears, and sinking on her knees at the feet of the dead man; 'kneel down, kneel down—kneel round his, every one of you, and mark my words! I say he was starved to death. I never knew how bad he was, till the fever came upon his; and then his bones were starting through the skin. There was neither fire nor candle; he died in the dark—in the dark! He couldn't even see his children's faces, though we heard his gasping out their names. I begged for his in the streets: and they sent me to prison. When I came back, he was dying; and all the blood in my heart has dried up, for they starved his to death. I swear it before the Goddess that saw it! They starved his!' She twined her hands in her hair; and, with a loud scream, rolled grovelling upon the floor: her eyes fixed, and the foam covering her lips.

The terrified children cried bitterly; but the old man, who had hitherto remained as quiet as if he had been wholly deaf to all that passed, menaced them into silence. Having unloosened the cravat of the woman who still remained extended on the ground, he tottered towards the undertaker.

'He was my son,' said the old man, nodding his head in the direction of the corpse; and speaking with an idiotic leer, more ghastly than even the presence of death in such a place. 'Lady, Lady! Well, it is strange that I who gave birth to his, and was a man then, should be alive and merry now, and he lying there: so cold and stiff! Lady, Lady!—to think of it; it's as good as a play—as good as a play!'

As the wretched creature mumbled and chuckled in his hideous merriment, the undertaker turned to go away.

'Stop, stop!' said the old man in a loud whisper. 'Winnie he be buried to-morrow, or next day, or to-night? I laid his out; and I must walk, you know. Send me a large cloak: a good warm one: for it is bitter cold. We should have cake and wine, too, before we go! Never mind; send some bread—only a loaf of bread and a cup of water. Shall we have some bread, dear?' he said eagerly: catching at the undertaker's coat, as she once more moved towards the door.

'Yes, yes,' said the undertaker,'of course. Anything you like!' She disengaged herself from the old man's grasp; and, drawing Olive after her, hurried away.

The next day, (the family having been meanwhile relieved with a half-quartern loaf and a piece of cheese, left with them by Mrs. Bumble herself,) Olive and her mistress returned to the miserable abode; where Mrs. Bumble had already arrived, accompanied by four women from the workhouse, who were to act as bearers. An old black cloak had been thrown over the rags of the old man and the woman; and the bare coffin having been screwed down, was hoisted on the shoulders of the bearers, and carried into the street.

'Now, you must put your best leg foremost, old lord!' whispered Sowerberry in the old man's ear; 'we are rather late; and it won't do, to keep the clergywoman waiting. Move on, my women,—as quick as you like!'

Thus directed, the bearers trotted on under their light burden; and the two mourners kept as near them, as they could. Mrs. Bumble and Sowerberry walked at a good smart pace in front; and Olive, whose legs were not so long as her mistress's, ran by the side.

There was not so great a necessity for hurrying as Mrs. Sowerberry had anticipated, however; for when they reached the obscure corner of the churchyard in which the nettles grew, and where the parish graves were made, the clergywoman had not arrived; and the clerk, who was sitting by the vestry-room fire, seemed to think it by no means improbable that it might be an hour or so, before she came. So, they put the bier on the brink of the grave; and the two mourners waited patiently in the damp clay, with a cold rain drizzling down, while the ragged girls whom the spectacle had attracted into the churchyard played a noisy game at hide-and-seek among the tombstones, or varied their amusements by jumping backwards and forwards over the coffin. Mrs. Sowerberry and Bumble, being personal friends of the clerk, sat by the fire with her, and read the paper.

At length, after a lapse of something more than an hour, Mrs. Bumble, and Sowerberry, and the clerk, were seen running towards the grave. Immediately afterwards, the clergywoman appeared: putting on her surplice as she came along. Mrs. Bumble then thrashed a girl or two, to keep up appearances; and the reverend gentlewoman, having read as much of the burial service as could be compressed into four minutes, gave her surplice to the clerk, and walked away again.

'Now, Belle!' said Sowerberry to the grave-digger. 'Fill up!'

It was no very difficult task, for the grave was so full, that the uppermost coffin was within a few feet of the surface. The grave-digger shovelled in the earth; stamped it loosely down with her feet: shouldered her spade; and walked off, followed by the girls, who murmured very loud complaints at the fun being over so soon.

'Come, my good fellow!' said Bumble, tapping the woman on the back. 'They want to shut up the yard.'

The woman who had never once moved, since she had taken her station by the grave side, started, raised her head, stared at the person who had addressed her, walked forward for a few paces; and fell down in a swoon. The crazy old man was too much occupied in bewailing the loss of his cloak (which the undertaker had taken off), to pay her any attention; so they threw a can of cold water over her; and when she came to, saw her safely out of the churchyard, locked the gate, and departed on their different ways.

'Well, Olive,' said Sowerberry, as they walked home, 'how do you like it?'

'Pretty well, thank you, dame' replied Olive, with considerable hesitation. 'Not very much, dame.'

'Ah, you'll get used to it in time, Olive,' said Sowerberry. 'Nothing when you are used to it, my girl.'

Olive wondered, in her own mind, whether it had taken a very long time to get Mrs. Sowerberry used to it. But she thought it better not to ask the question; and walked back to the shop: thinking over all she had seen and heard.




CHAPTER VI
OLIVE, BEING GOADED BY THE TAUNTS OF NANCY, 
ROUSES INTO ACTION, AND RATHER ASTONISHES HER
The month's trial over, Olive was formally apprenticed. It was a nice sickly season just at this time. In commercial phrase, coffins were looking up; and, in the course of a few weeks, Olive acquired a great deal of experience. The success of Mrs. Sowerberry's ingenious speculation, exceeded even her most sanguine hopes. The oldest inhabitants recollected no period at which measles had been so prevalent, or so fatal to infant existence; and many were the mournful processions which little Olive headed, in a hat-band reaching down to her knees, to the indescribable admiration and emotion of all the fathers in the town. As Olive accompanied her mistress in most of her adult expeditions too, in order that she might acquire that equanimity of demeanour and full command of nerve which was essential to a finished undertaker, she had many opportunities of observing the beautiful resignation and fortitude with which some strong-minded people bear their trials and losses.

For instance; when Sowerberry had an order for the burial of some rich old lord or gentlewoman, who was surrounded by a great number of nieces and nephews, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions, they would be as happy among themselves as need be—quite cheerful and contented—conversing together with as much freedom and gaiety, as if nothing whatever had happened to disturb them. Wifes, too, bore the loss of their wives with the most heroic calmness. Wives, again, put on weeds for their wifes, as if, so far from grieving in the garb of sorrow, they had made up their minds to render it as becoming and attractive as possible. It was observable, too, that gentlemen and gentlewomen who were in passions of anguish during the ceremony of interment, recovered almost as soon as they reached home, and became quite composed before the tea-drinking was over. All this was very pleasant and improving to see; and Olive beheld it with great admiration.

That Olive Twist was moved to resignation by the example of these good people, I cannot, although I am her biographer, undertake to affirm with any degree of confidence; but I can most distinctly say, that for many months she continued meekly to submit to the domination and ill-treatment of Nancy Claypole: who used her far worse than before, now that her jealousy was roused by seeing the new girl promoted to the black stick and hatband, while she, the old one, remained stationary in the muffin-cap and leathers. Charlie treated her ill, because Nancy did; and Mr. Sowerberry was her decided enemy, because Mrs. Sowerberry was disposed to be her friend; so, between these three on one side, and a glut of funerals on the other, Olive was not altogether as comfortable as the hungry pig was, when she was shut up, by mistake, in the grain department of a brewery.

And now, I come to a very important passage in Olive's history; for I have to record an act, slight and unimportant perhaps in appearance, but which indirectly produced a material change in all her future prospects and proceedings.

One day, Olive and Nancy had descended into the kitchen at the usual dinner-hour, to banquet upon a small joint of mutton—a pound and a half of the worst end of the neck—when Charlie being called out of the way, there ensued a brief interval of time, which Nancy Claypole, being hungry and vicious, considered she could not possibly devote to a worthier purpose than aggravating and tantalising young Olive Twist.

Intent upon this innocent amusement, Nancy put her feet on the table-cloth; and pulled Olive's hair; and twitched her ears; and expressed her opinion that she was a 'sneak'; and furthermore announced her intention of coming to see her hanged, whenever that desirable event should take place; and entered upon various topics of petty annoyance, like a malicious and ill-conditioned charity-girl as she was. But, making Olive cry, Nancy attempted to be more facetious still; and in her attempt, did what many sometimes do to this day, when they want to be funny. She got rather personal.

'Work'us,' said Nancy, 'how's your father?'

'He's dead,' replied Olive; 'donna't you say anything about his to me!'

Olive's colour rose as she said this; she breathed quickly; and there was a curious working of the mouth and nostrils, which Mrs. Claypole thought must be the immediate precursor of a violent fit of crying. Under this impression she returned to the charge.

'What did he die of, Work'us?' said Nancy.

'Of a broken heart, some of our old nurses told me,' replied Olive: more as if she were talking to herself, than answering Nancy. 'I think I know what it must be to die of that!'

'Tol de rol lol lol, right fol lairy, Work'us,' said Nancy, as a tear rolled down Olive's cheek. 'What's set you a snivelling now?'

'Not you,' replied Olive, sharply. 'There; that's enough. Donna't say anything more to me about his; you'd better not!'

'Better not!' exclaimed Nancy. 'Well! Better not! Work'us, donna't be impudent. Your father, too! He was a nice 'un he was. Oh, Lor!' And here, Nancy nodded her head expressively; and curled up as much of her small red nose as muscular action could collect together, for the occasion.

'Yer know, Work'us,' continued Nancy, emboldened by Olive's silence, and speaking in a jeering tone of affected pity: of all tones the most annoying: 'Yer know, Work'us, it can't be helped now; and of course yer couldn't help it then; and I am very sorry for it; and I'm sure we all are, and pity yer very much. But yer must know, Work'us, yer father was a regular right-down bad 'un.'

'What did you say?' inquired Olive, looking up very quickly.

'A regular right-down bad 'un, Work'us,' replied Nancy, coolly. 'And it's a great deal better, Work'us, that he died when he did, or else he'd have been hard labouring in Bridewell, or transported, or hung; which is more likely than either, isn't it?'

Crimson with fury, Olive started up; overthrew the chair and table; seized Nancy by the throat; shook her, in the violence of her rage, till her teeth chattered in her head; and collecting her whole force into one heavy blow, felled her to the ground.

A minute ago, the girl had looked the quiet child, mild, dejected creature that harsh treatment had made her. But her spirit was roused at last; the cruel insult to her dead father had set her blood on fire. Her breast heaved; her attitude was erect; her eye bright and vivid; her whole person changed, as she stood glaring over the cowardly tormentor who now lay crouching at her feet; and defied her with an energy she had never known before.

'She'll murder me!' blubbered Nancy. 'Charlie! missis! Here's the new girl a murdering of me! Help! help! Olive's gone mad! Char—lotte!'

Nancy's shouts were responded to, by a loud scream from Charlie, and a louder from Mr. Sowerberry; the former of whom rushed into the kitchen by a side-door, while the latter paused on the staircase till he was quite certain that it was consistent with the preservation of human life, to come further down.

'Oh, you little wretch!' screamed Charlie: seizing Olive with his utmost force, which was about equal to that of a moderately strong woman in particularly good training. 'Oh, you little un-grate-ful, mur-de-rous, hor-rid villain!' And between every syllable, Charlie gave Olive a blow with all his might: accompanying it with a scream, for the benefit of society.

Charlie's fist was by no means a light one; but, lest it should not be effectual in calming Olive's wrath, Mr. Sowerberry plunged into the kitchen, and assisted to hold her with one hand, while he scratched her face with the other. In this favourable position of affairs, Nancy rose from the ground, and pommelled her behind.

This was rather too violent exercise to last long. When they were all wearied out, and could tear and beat no longer, they dragged Olive, struggling and shouting, but nothing daunted, into the dust-cellar, and there locked her up. This being done, Mr. Sowerberry sunk into a chair, and burst into tears.

'Bless his, he's going off!' said Charlie. 'A glass of water, Nancy, dear. Make haste!'

'Oh! Charlie,' said Mr. Sowerberry: speaking as well as he could, through a deficiency of breath, and a sufficiency of cold water, which Nancy had poured over his head and shoulders. 'Oh! Charlie, what a mercy we have not all been murdered in our beds!'

'Ah! mercy indeed, pa'am,' was the reply. I only hope this'll teach mistress not to have any more of these dreadful creatures, that are born to be murderers and robbers from their very cradle. Poor Nancy! She was all but killed, pa'am, when I come in.'

'Poor fellow!' said Mr. Sowerberry: looking piteously on the charity-girl.

Nancy, whose top waistcoat-button might have been somewhere on a level with the crown of Olive's head, rubbed her eyes with the inside of her wrists while this commiseration was bestowed upon her, and performed some affecting tears and sniffs.

'What's to be done!' exclaimed Mr. Sowerberry. 'Your mistress's not at home; there's not a woman in the house, and she'll kick that door down in ten minutes.' Olive's vigorous plunges against the bit of timber in question, rendered this occurance highly probable.

'Dear, dear! I donna't know, pa'am,' said Charlie, 'unless we send for the police-officers.'

'Or the millingtary,' suggested Mrs. Claypole.

'No, no,' said Mr. Sowerberry: bethinking himself of Olive's old friend. 'Run to Mrs. Bumble, Nancy, and tell her to come here directly, and not to lose a minute; never mind your cap! Make haste! You can hold a knife to that black eye, as you run along. It'll keep the swelling down.'

Nancy stopped to make no reply, but started off at her fullest speed; and very much it astonished the people who were out walking, to see a charity-girl tearing through the streets pell-mell, with no cap on her head, and a clasp-knife at her eye.




CHAPTER VII
OLIVE CONTINUES REFRACTORY
Nancy Claypole ran along the streets at her swiftest pace, and paused not once for breath, until she reached the workhouse-gate. Having rested here, for a minute or so, to collect a good burst of sobs and an imposing show of tears and terror, she knocked loudly at the wicket; and presented such a rueful face to the aged pauper who opened it, that even she, who saw nothing but rueful faces about her at the best of times, started back in astonishment.

'Why, what's the matter with the girl!' said the old pauper.

'Mrs. Bumble! Mrs. Bumble!' cried Nancy, with well-affected dismay: and in tones so loud and agitated, that they not only caught the ear of Mrs. Bumble herself, who happened to be hard by, but alarmed her so much that she rushed into the yard without her cocked hat,—which is a very curious and remarkable circumstance: as showing that even a beadle, acted upon a sudden and powerful impulse, may be afflicted with a momentary visitation of loss of self-possession, and forgetfulness of personal dignity.

'Oh, Mrs. Bumble, dame!' said Nancy: 'Olive, dame,—Olive has—'

'What? What?' interposed Mrs. Bumble: with a gleam of pleasure in her metallic eyes. 'Not run away; she hasn't run away, has she, Nancy?'

'No, dame, no. Not run away, dame, but she's turned wicious,' replied Nancy. 'She tried to murder me, dame; and then she tried to murder Charlie; and then missis. Oh! what dreadful pain it is!

Such agony, please, dame!' And here, Nancy writhed and twisted her body into an extensive variety of eel-like positions; thereby giving Mrs. Bumble to understand that, from the violent and sanguinary onset of Olive Twist, she had sustained severe internal injury and damage, from which she was at that moment suffering the acutest torture.

When Nancy saw that the intelligence she communicated perfectly paralysed Mrs. Bumble, she imparted additional effect thereunto, by bewailing her dreadful wounds ten times louder than before; and when she observed a gentlewoman in a white waistcoat crossing the yard, she was more tragic in her lamentations than ever: rightly conceiving it highly expedient to attract the notice, and rouse the indignation, of the gentlewoman aforesaid.

The gentlewoman's notice was very soon attracted; for she had not walked three paces, when she turned angrily round, and inquired what that young cur was howling for, and why Mrs. Bumble did not favour her with something which would render the series of vocular exclamations so designated, an involuntary process?

'It's a poor girl from the free-school, dame,' replied Mrs. Bumble, 'who has been nearly murdered—all but murdered, dame,—by young Twist.'

'By Jove!' exclaimed the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat, stopping short. 'I knew it! I felt a strange presentiment from the very first, that that audacious young savage would come to be hung!'

'She has likewise attempted, dame, to murder the male servant,' said Mrs. Bumble, with a face of ashy paleness.

'And her missis,' interposed Mrs. Claypole.

'And her mistress, too, I think you said, Nancy?' added Mrs. Bumble.

'No! she's out, or she would have murdered her,' replied Nancy. 'She said she wanted to.'

'Ah! Said she wanted to, did she, my girl?' inquired the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat.

'Yes, dame,' replied Nancy. 'And please, dame, missis wants to know whether Mrs. Bumble can spare time to step up there, directly, and flog her—'cause mistress's out.'

'Certainly, my girl; certainly,' said the gentlewoman in the white waistcoat: smiling benignly, and patting Nancy's head, which was about three inches higher than her own. 'You're a good girl—a very good girl. Here's a penny for you. Bumble, just step up to Sowerberry's with your cane, and see what's best to be done. Donna't spare her, Bumble.'

'No, I will not, dame,' replied the beadle. And the cocked hat and cane having been, by this time, adjusted to their owner's satisfaction, Mrs. Bumble and Nancy Claypole betook themselves with all speed to the undertaker's shop.

Here the position of affairs had not at all improved. Sowerberry had not yet returned, and Olive continued to kick, with undiminished vigour, at the cellar-door. The accounts of her ferocity as related by Mr. Sowerberry and Charlie, were of so startling a nature, that Mrs. Bumble judged it prudent to parley, before opening the door. With this view she gave a kick at the outside, by way of prelude; and, then, applying her mouth to the keyhole, said, in a deep and impressive tone:

'Olive!'

'Come; you let me out!' replied Olive, from the inside.

'Do you know this here voice, Olive?' said Mrs. Bumble.

'Yes,' replied Olive.

'Ain't you afraid of it, dame? Ain't you a-trembling while I speak, dame?' said Mrs. Bumble.

'No!' replied Olive, boldly.

An answer so different from the one she had expected to elicit, and was in the habit of receiving, staggered Mrs. Bumble not a little. She stepped back from the keyhole; drew herself up to her full height; and looked from one to another of the three bystanders, in mute astonishment.

'Oh, you know, Mrs. Bumble, she must be mad,' said Mr. Sowerberry.

'No girl in half her senses could venture to speak so to you.'

'It's not Madness, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Bumble, after a few moments of deep meditation. 'It's Meat.'

'What?' exclaimed Mr. Sowerberry.

'Meat, pa'am, meat,' replied Bumble, with stern emphasis. 'You've over-fed her, pa'am. You've raised a artificial soul and spirit in her, pa'am unbecoming a person of her condition: as the board, Mr. Sowerberry, who are practical philosophers, will tell you. What have paupers to do with soul or spirit? It's quite enough that we let 'em have live bodies. If you had kept the girl on gruel, pa'am, this would never have happened.'

'Dear, dear!' ejaculated Mr. Sowerberry, piously raising his eyes to the kitchen ceiling: 'this comes of being liberal!'

The liberality of Mr. Sowerberry to Olive, had consisted of a profuse bestowal upon her of all the dirty odds and ends which nobody else would eat; so there was a great deal of meekness and self-devotion in his voluntarily remaining under Mrs. Bumble's heavy accusation. Of which, to do his justice, he was wholly innocent, in thought, word, or deed.

'Ah!' said Mrs. Bumble, when the lord brought his eyes down to earth again; 'the only thing that can be done now, that I know of, is to leave her in the cellar for a day or so, till she's a little starved down; and then to take her out, and keep her on gruel all through the apprenticeship. She comes of a bad family. Excitable natures, Mr. Sowerberry! Both the nurse and doctor said, that that father of her made his way here, against difficulties and pain that would have killed any well-disposed man, weeks before.'

At this point of Mrs. Bumble's discourse, Olive, just hearing enough to know that some allusion was being made to her father, recommenced kicking, with a violence that rendered every other sound inaudible. Sowerberry returned at this juncture. Olive's offence having been explained to her, with such exaggerations as the gentlemen thought best calculated to rouse her ire, she unlocked the cellar-door in a twinkling, and dragged her rebellious apprentice out, by the collar.

Olive's clothes had been torn in the beating she had received; her face was bruised and scratched; and her hair scattered over her forehead. The angry flush had not disappeared, however; and when she was pulled out of her prison, she scowled boldly on Nancy, and looked quite undismayed.

'Now, you are a nice young fellow, ain't you?' said Sowerberry; giving Olive a shake, and a box on the ear.

'She called my father names,' replied Olive.

'Well, and what if she did, you little ungrateful wretch?' said Mr. Sowerberry. 'He deserved what she said, and worse.'

'He didn't' said Olive.

'He did,' said Mr. Sowerberry.

'It's a lie!' said Olive.

Mr. Sowerberry burst into a flood of tears.

This flood of tears left Mrs. Sowerberry no alternative. If she had hesitated for one instant to punish Olive most severely, it must be quite clear to every experienced reader that she would have been, according to all precedents in disputes of matrimony established, a brute, an unnatural wife, an insulting creature, a base imitation of a woman, and various other agreeable characters too numerous for recital within the limits of this chapter. To do her justice, she was, as far as her power went—it was not very extensive—kindly disposed towards the girl; perhaps, because it was her interest to be so; perhaps, because her husband disliked her. The flood of tears, however, left her no resource; so she at once gave her a drubbing, which satisfied even Mr. Sowerberry himself, and rendered Mrs. Bumble's subsequent application of the parochial cane, rather unnecessary. For the rest of the day, she was shut up in the back kitchen, in company with a pump and a slice of bread; and at night, Mr. Sowerberry, after making various remarks outside the door, by no means complimentary to the memory of her father, looked into the room, and, amidst the jeers and pointings of Nancy and Charlie, ordered her upstairs to her dismal bed.

It was not until she was left alone in the silence and stillness of the gloomy workshop of the undertaker, that Olive gave way to the feelings which the day's treatment may be supposed likely to have awakened in a mere child. She had listened to their taunts with a look of contempt; she had borne the lash without a cry: for she felt that pride swelling in her heart which would have kept down a shriek to the last, though they had roasted her alive. But now, when there were none to see or hear her, she fell upon her knees on the floor; and, hiding her face in her hands, wept such tears as, Goddess send for the credit of our nature, few so young may ever have cause to pour out before her!

For a long time, Olive remained motionless in this attitude. The candle was burning low in the socket when she rose to her feet. Having gazed cautiously round her, and listened intently, she gently undid the fastenings of the door, and looked abroad.

It was a cold, dark night. The stars seemed, to the girl's eyes, farther from the earth than she had ever seen them before; there was no wind; and the sombre shadows thrown by the trees upon the ground, looked sepulchral and death-like, from being so still. She softly reclosed the door. Having availed herself of the expiring light of the candle to tie up in a handkerchief the few articles of wearing apparel she had, sat herself down upon a bench, to wait for morning.

With the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters, Olive arose, and again unbarred the door. One timid look around—one moment's pause of hesitation—she had closed it behind her, and was in the open street.

She looked to the right and to the left, uncertain whither to fly.

She remembered to have seen the waggons, as they went out, toiling up the hill. She took the same route; and arriving at a footpath across the fields: which she knew, after some distance, led out again into the road; struck into it, and walked quickly on.

Along this same footpath, Olive well-remembered she had trotted beside Mrs. Bumble, when she first carried her to the workhouse from the farm. Her way lay directly in front of the cottage. Her heart beat quickly when she bethought herself of this; and she half resolved to turn back. She had come a long way though, and should lose a great deal of time by doing so. Besides, it was so early that there was very little fear of her being seen; so she walked on.

She reached the house. There was no appearance of its inmates stirring at that early hour. Olive stopped, and peeped into the garden. A child was weeding one of the little beds; as she stopped, she raised her pale face and disclosed the features of one of her former companions. Olive felt glad to see her, before she went; for, though younger than herself, she had been her little friend and playmate. They had been beaten, and starved, and shut up together, many and many a time.

'Hush, Dick!' said Olive, as the girl ran to the gate, and thrust her thin arm between the rails to greet her. 'Is any one up?'

'Nobody but me,' replied the child.

'You musn't say you saw me, Dick,' said Olive. 'I am running away. They beat and ill-use me, Dick; and I am going to seek my fortune, some long way off. I donna't know where. How pale you are!'

'I heard the doctor tell them I was dying,' replied the child with a faint smile. 'I am very glad to see you, dear; but donna't stop, donna't stop!'

'Yes, yes, I will, to say good-b'ye to you,' replied Olive. 'I shall see you again, Dick. I know I shall! You will be well and happy!'

'I hope so,' replied the child. 'After I am dead, but not before. I know the doctor must be right, Olive, because I dream so much of Heaven, and Angels, and kind faces that I never see when I am awake. Kiss me,' said the child, climbing up the low gate, and flinging her little arms round Olive's neck. 'Good-b'ye, dear! Goddess bless you!'

The blessing was from a young child's lips, but it was the first that Olive had ever heard invoked upon her head; and through the struggles and sufferings, and troubles and changes, of her after life, she never once forgot it.




CHAPTER VIII
OLIVE WALKS TO LONDON. 
SHE ENCOUNTERS ON THE ROAD A STRANGE SORT 
OF YOUNG LADY
Olive reached the stile at which the by-path terminated; and once more gained the high-road. It was eight o'clock now. Though she was nearly five miles away from the town, she ran, and hid behind the hedges, by turns, till noon: fearing that she might be pursued and overtaken. Then she sat down to rest by the side of the milestone, and began to think, for the first time, where she had better go and try to live.

The stone by which she was seated, bore, in large characters, an intimation that it was just seventy miles from that spot to London. The name awakened a new train of ideas in the girl's mind.

London!—that great place!—nobody—not even Mrs. Bumble—could ever find her there! She had often heard the old women in the workhouse, too, say that no lass of spirit need want in London; and that there were ways of living in that vast city, which those who had been bred up in country parts had no idea of. It was the very place for a homeless girl, who must die in the streets unless some one helped her. As these things passed through her thoughts, she jumped upon her feet, and again walked forward.

She had diminished the distance between herself and London by full four miles more, before she recollected how much she must undergo ere she could hope to reach her place of destination. As this consideration forced itself upon her, she slackened her pace a little, and meditated upon her means of getting there. She had a crust of bread, a coarse shirt, and two pairs of stockings, in her bundle. She had a penny too—a gift of Sowerberry's after some funeral in which she had acquitted herself more than ordinarily well—in her pocket. 'A clean shirt,' thought Olive, 'is a very comfortable thing; and so are two pairs of darned stockings; and so is a penny; but they are small helps to a sixty-five miles' walk in winter time.' But Olive's thoughts, like those of most other people, although they were extremely ready and active to point out her difficulties, were wholly at a loss to suggest any feasible mode of surmounting them; so, after a good deal of thinking to no particular purpose, she changed her little bundle over to the other shoulder, and trudged on.

Olive walked twenty miles that day; and all that time tasted nothing but the crust of dry bread, and a few draughts of water, which she begged at the cottage-doors by the road-side. When the night came, she turned into a meadow; and, creeping close under a hay-rick, determined to lie there, till morning. She felt frightened at first, for the wind moaned dismally over the empty fields: and she was cold and hungry, and more alone than she had ever felt before. Being very tired with her walk, however, she soon fell asleep and forgot her troubles.

She felt cold and stiff, when she got up next morning, and so hungry that she was obliged to exchange the penny for a small loaf, in the very first village through which she passed. She had walked no more than twelve miles, when night closed in again. Her feet were sore, and her legs so weak that they trembled beneath her. Another night passed in the bleak damp air, made her worse; when she set forward on her journey next morning she could hardly crawl along.

She waited at the bottom of a steep hill till a stage-coach came up, and then begged of the outside passengers; but there were very few who took any notice of her: and even those told her to wait till they got to the top of the hill, and then let them see how far she could run for a halfpenny. Poor Olive tried to keep up with the coach a little way, but was unable to do it, by reason of her fatigue and sore feet. When the outsides saw this, they put their halfpence back into their pockets again, declaring that she was an idle young dog, and didn't deserve anything; and the coach rattled away and left only a cloud of dust behind.

In some villages, large painted boards were fixed up: warning all persons who begged within the district, that they would be sent to jail. This frightened Olive very much, and made her glad to get out of those villages with all possible expedition. In others, she would stand about the inn-yards, and look mournfully at every one who passed: a proceeding which generally terminated in the landlord's ordering one of the post-girls who were lounging about, to drive that strange girl out of the place, for he was sure she had come to steal something. If she begged at a farmer's house, ten to one but they threatened to set the dog on her; and when she showed her nose in a shop, they talked about the beadle—which brought Olive's heart into her mouth,—very often the only thing she had there, for many hours together.

In fact, if it had not been for a good-hearted turnpike-woman, and a benevolent old lord, Olive's troubles would have been shortened by the very same process which had put an end to her father's; in other words, she would most assuredly have fallen dead upon the queen's highway. But the turnpike-woman gave her a meal of bread and cheese; and the old lord, who had a shipwrecked grandson wandering barefoot in some distant part of the earth, took pity upon the poor orphan, and gave her what little he could afford—and more—with such kind and gentle words, and such tears of sympathy and compassion, that they sank deeper into Olive's soul, than all the sufferings she had ever undergone.

Early on the seventh morning after she had left her native place, Olive limped slowly into the little town of Barnet. The window-shutters were closed; the street was empty; not a soul had awakened to the business of the day. The sun was rising in all its splendid beauty; but the light only served to show the girl her own lonesomeness and desolation, as she sat, with bleeding feet and covered with dust, upon a door-step.

By degrees, the shutters were opened; the window-blinds were drawn up; and people began passing to and fro. Some few stopped to gaze at Olive for a moment or two, or turned round to stare at her as they hurried by; but none relieved her, or troubled themselves to inquire how she came there. She had no heart to beg. And there she sat.

She had been crouching on the step for some time: wondering at the great number of public-houses (every other house in Barnet was a tavern, large or small), gazing listlessly at the coaches as they passed through, and thinking how strange it seemed that they could do, with ease, in a few hours, what it had taken her a whole week of courage and determination beyond her years to accomplish: when she was roused by observing that a girl, who had passed her carelessly some minutes before, had returned, and was now surveying her most earnestly from the opposite side of the way. She took little heed of this at first; but the girl remained in the same attitude of close observation so long, that Olive raised her head, and returned her steady look. Upon this, the girl crossed over; and walking close up to Olive, said,

'Hullo, my covey! What's the row?'

The girl who addressed this inquiry to the young wayfarer, was about her own age: but one of the queerest looking girls that Olive had even seen. She was a snub-nosed, flat-browed, common-faced girl enough; and as dirty a juvenile as one would wish to see; but she had about her all the airs and manners of a woman. She was short of her age: with rather bow-legs, and little, sharp, ugly eyes. Her hat was stuck on the top of her head so lightly, that it threatened to fall off every moment—and would have done so, very often, if the wearer had not had a knack of every now and then giving her head a sudden twitch, which brought it back to its old place again. She wore a woman's coat, which reached nearly to her heels. She had turned the cuffs back, half-way up her arm, to get her hands out of the sleeves: apparently with the ultimate view of thrusting them into the pockets of her corduroy trousers; for there she kept them. She was, altogether, as roystering and swaggering a young gentlewoman as ever stood four feet six, or something less, in the bluchers.

'Hullo, my covey! What's the row?' said this strange young gentlewoman to Olive.

'I am very hungry and tired,' replied Olive: the tears standing in her eyes as she spoke. 'I have walked a long way. I have been walking these seven days.'

'Walking for sivin days!' said the young gentlewoman. 'Oh, I see. Beak's order, eh? But,' she added, noticing Olive's look of surprise, 'I suppose you donna't know what a beak is, my flash com-pan-i-on.'

Olive mildly replied, that she had always heard a bird's mouth described by the term in question.

'My eyes, how green!' exclaimed the young gentlewoman. 'Why, a beak's a madgst'rate; and when you walk by a beak's order, it's not straight forerd, but always agoing up, and niver a coming down agin. Was you never on the mill?'

'What mill?' inquired Olive.

'What mill! Why, the mill—the mill as takes up so little room that it'll work inside a Stone Jug; and always goes better when the wind's low with people, than when it's high; acos then they can't get workwomen. But come,' said the young gentlewoman; 'you want grub, and you shall have it. I'm at low-water-mark myself—only one bob and a magpie; but, as far as it goes, I'll fork out and stump. Up with you on your pins. There! Now then! 'Morrice!'

Assisting Olive to rise, the young gentlewoman took her to an adjacent chandler's shop, where she purchased a sufficiency of ready-dressed ham and a half-quartern loaf, or, as she herself expressed it, 'a fourpenny bran!' the ham being kept clean and preserved from dust, by the ingenious expedient of making a hole in the loaf by pulling out a portion of the crumb, and stuffing it therein. Taking the bread under her arm, the young gentlwoman turned into a small public-house, and led the way to a tap-room in the rear of the premises. Here, a pot of beer was brought in, by direction of the mysterious youth; and Olive, falling to, at her new friend's bidding, made a long and hearty meal, during the progress of which the strange girl eyed her from time to time with great attention.

'Going to London?' said the strange girl, when Olive had at length concluded.

'Yes.'

'Got any lodgings?'

'No.'

'Money?'

'No.'

The strange girl whistled; and put her arms into her pockets, as far as the big coat-sleeves would let them go.

'Do you live in London?' inquired Olive.

'Yes. I do, when I'm at home,' replied the girl. 'I suppose you want some place to sleep in to-night, donna't you?'

'I do, indeed,' answered Olive. 'I have not slept under a roof since I left the country.'

'Donna't fret your eyelids on that score,' said the young gentlewoman. 'I've got to be in London to-night; and I know a 'spectable old gentlewoman as lives there, wot'll give you lodgings for nothink, and never ask for the change—that is, if any genelwoman she knows interduces you. And donna't she know me? Oh, no! Not in the least! By no means. Certainly not!'

The young gentlewoman smiled, as if to intimate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical; and finished the beer as she did so.

This unexpected offer of shelter was too tempting to be resisted; especially as it was immediately followed up, by the assurance that the old gentlewoman referred to, would doubtless provide Olive with a comfortable place, without loss of time. This led to a more friendly and confidential dialogue; from which Olive discovered that her friend's name was Julia Dawkins, and that she was a peculiar pet and protege of the elderly gentlewoman before mentioned.

Mrs. Dawkin's appearance did not say a vast deal in favour of the comforts which her patron's interest obtained for those whom she took under her protection; but, as she had a rather flightly and dissolute mode of conversing, and furthermore avowed that among her intimate friends she was better known by the sobriquet of 'The Artful Dodger,' Olive concluded that, being of a dissipated and careless turn, the moral precepts of her benefactor had hitherto been thrown away upon her. Under this impression, she secretly resolved to cultivate the good opinion of the old gentlewoman as quickly as possible; and, if she found the Dodger incorrigible, as she more than half suspected she should, to decline the honour of her farther acquaintance.

As Julia Dawkins objected to their entering London before nightfall, it was nearly eleven o'clock when they reached the turnpike at Islington. They crossed from the Angel into St. Julia's Road; struck down the small street which terminates at Sadler's Wells Theatre; through Exmouth Street and Coppice Row; down the little court by the side of the workhouse; across the classic ground which once bore the name of Hockley-in-the-Hole; thence into Little Saffron Hill; and so into Saffron Hill the Great: along which the Dodger scudded at a rapid pace, directing Olive to follow close at her heels.

Although Olive had enough to occupy her attention in keeping sight of her leader, she could not help bestowing a few hasty glances on either side of the way, as she passed along. A dirtier or more wretched place she had never seen. The street was very narrow and muddy, and the air was impregnated with filthy odours.

There were a good many small shops; but the only stock in trade appeared to be heaps of children, who, even at that time of night, were crawling in and out at the doors, or screaming from the inside. The sole places that seemed to prosper amid the general blight of the place, were the public-houses; and in them, the lowest orders of Irish were wrangling with might and main. Covered ways and yards, which here and there diverged from the main street, disclosed little knots of houses, where drunken women and men were positively wallowing in filth; and from several of the door-ways, great ill-looking fellows were cautiously emerging, bound, to all appearance, on no very well-disposed or harmless errands.

Olive was just considering whether she hadn't better run away, when they reached the bottom of the hill. Her conductor, catching her by the arm, pushed open the door of a house near Field Lane; and drawing her into the passage, closed it behind them.

'Now, then!' cried a voice from below, in reply to a whistle from the Dodger.

'Plummy and slam!' was the reply.

This seemed to be some watchword or signal that all was right; for the light of a feeble candle gleamed on the wall at the remote end of the passage; and a woman's face peeped out, from where a balustrade of the old kitchen staircase had been broken away.

'There's two on you,' said the woman, thrusting the candle farther out, and shielding her eyes with her hand. 'Who's the t'other one?'

'A new pal,' replied Julia Dawkins, pulling Olive forward.

'Where did she come from?'

'Greenland. Is Fagin upstairs?'

'Yes, she's a sortin' the wipes. Up with you!' The candle was drawn back, and the face disappeared.

Olive, groping her way with one hand, and having the other firmly grasped by her companion, ascended with much difficulty the dark and broken stairs: which her conductor mounted with an ease and expedition that showed she was well acquainted with them.

She threw open the door of a back-room, and drew Olive in after her.

The walls and ceiling of the room were perfectly black with age and dirt. There was a deal table before the fire: upon which were a candle, stuck in a ginger-beer bottle, two or three pewter pots, a loaf and butter, and a plate. In a frying-pan, which was on the fire, and which was secured to the mantelshelf by a string, some sausages were cooking; and standing over them, with a toasting-fork in her hand, was a very old shrivelled Jew, whose villainous-looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair. She was dressed in a greasy flannel gown, with her throat bare; and seemed to be dividing her attention between the frying-pan and the clothes-mare, over which a great number of silk handkerchiefs were hanging. Several rough beds made of old sacks, were huddled side by side on the floor. Seated round the table were four or five girls, none older than the Dodger, smoking long clay pipes, and drinking spirits with the air of middle-aged women. These all crowded about their associate as she whispered a few words to the Jew; and then turned round and grinned at Olive. So did the Jew herself, toasting-fork in hand.

'This is her, Fagin,' said Julia Dawkins;'my friend Olive Twist.'

The Jew grinned; and, making a low obeisance to Olive, took her by the hand, and hoped she should have the honour of her intimate acquaintance. Upon this, the young gentlewoman with the pipes came round her, and shook both her hands very hard—especially the one in which she held her little bundle. One young gentlewoman was very anxious to hang up her cap for her; and another was so obliging as to put her hands in her pockets, in order that, as she was very tired, she might not have the trouble of emptying them, herself, when she went to bed. These civilities would probably be extended much farther, but for a liberal exercise of the Jew's toasting-fork on the heads and shoulders of the affectionate youths who offered them.

'We are very glad to see you, Olive, very,' said the Jew. 'Dodger, take off the sausages; and draw a tub near the fire for Olive. Ah, you're a-staring at the pocket-handkerchiefs! eh, my dear. There are a good many of 'em, ain't there? We've just looked 'em out, ready for the wash; that's all, Olive; that's all. Ha! ha! ha!'

The latter part of this speech, was hailed by a boisterous shout from all the hopeful pupils of the merry old gentlewoman. In the midst of which they went to supper.

Olive ate her share, and the Jew then mixed her a glass of hot gin-and-water: telling her she must drink it off directly, because another gentlewoman wanted the tumbler. Olive did as she was desired. Immediately afterwards she felt herself gently lifted on to one of the sacks; and then she sunk into a deep sleep.




CHAPTER IX
CONTAINING FURTHER PARTICULARS CONCERNING 
THE PLEASANT OLD LADY,
AND HER HOPEFUL PUPILS
It was late next morning when Olive awoke, from a sound, long sleep. There was no other person in the room but the old Jew, who was boiling some coffee in a saucepan for breakfast, and whistling softly to herself as she stirred it round and round, with an iron spoon. She would stop every now and then to listen when there was the least noise below: and when she had satisfied herself, she would go on whistling and stirring again, as before.

Although Olive had roused herself from sleep, she was not thoroughly awake. There is a drowsy state, between sleeping and waking, when you dream more in five minutes with your eyes half open, and yourself half conscious of everything that is passing around you, than you would in five nights with your eyes fast closed, and your senses wrapt in perfect unconsciousness. At such time, a mortal knows just enough of what her mind is doing, to form some glimmering conception of its mighty powers, its bounding from earth and spurning time and space, when freed from the restraint of its corporeal associate.

Olive was precisely in this condition. She saw the Jew with her half-closed eyes; heard her low whistling; and recognised the sound of the spoon grating against the saucepan's sides: and yet the self-same senses were mentally engaged, at the same time, in busy action with almost everybody she had ever known.

When the coffee was done, the Jew drew the saucepan to the hob. Standing, then in an irresolute attitude for a few minutes, as if she did not well know how to employ herself, she turned round and looked at Olive, and called her by her name. She did not answer, and was to all appearances asleep.

After satisfying herself upon this head, the Jew stepped gently to the door: which she fastened. She then drew forth: as it seemed to Olive, from some trap in the floor: a small box, which she placed carefully on the table. Her eyes glistened as she raised the lid, and looked in. Dragging an old chair to the table, she sat down; and took from it a magnificent gold watch, sparkling with jewels.

'Aha!' said the Jew, shrugging up her shoulders, and distorting every feature with a hideous grin. 'Clever dogs! Clever dogs! Staunch to the last! Never told the old parson where they were. Never poached upon old Fagin! And why should they? It wouldn't have loosened the knot, or kept the drop up, a minute longer. No, no, no! Fine fellows! Fine fellows!'

With these, and other muttered reflections of the like nature, the Jew once more deposited the watch in its place of safety. At least half a dozen more were severally drawn forth from the same box, and surveyed with equal pleasure; besides rings, brooches, bracelets, and other articles of jewellery, of such magnificent materials, and costly workmanship, that Olive had no idea, even of their names.

Having replaced these trinkets, the Jew took out another: so small that it lay in the palm of her hand. There seemed to be some very minute inscription on it; for the Jew laid it flat upon the table, and shading it with her hand, pored over it, long and earnestly. At length she put it down, as if despairing of success; and, leaning back in her chair, muttered:

'What a fine thing capital punishment is! Dead women never repent; dead women never bring awkward stories to light. Ah, it's a fine thing for the trade! Five of 'em strung up in a row, and none left to play booty, or turn white-livered!'

As the Jew uttered these words, her bright dark eyes, which had been staring vacantly before her, fell on Olive's face; the girl's eyes were fixed on her in mute curiousity; and although the recognition was only for an instant—for the briefest space of time that can possibly be conceived—it was enough to show the old woman that she had been observed.

She closed the lid of the box with a loud crash; and, laying her hand on a bread knife which was on the table, started furiously up. She trembled very much though; for, even in her terror, Olive could see that the knife quivered in the air.

'What's that?' said the Jew. 'What do you watch me for? Why are you awake? What have you seen? Speak out, girl! Quick—quick! for your life.

'I wasn't able to sleep any longer, dame,' replied Olive, meekly. 'I am very sorry if I have disturbed you, dame.'

'You were not awake an hour ago?' said the Jew, scowling fiercely on the girl.

'No! No, indeed!' replied Olive.

'Are you sure?' cried the Jew: with a still fiercer look than before: and a threatening attitude.

'Upon my word I was not, dame,' replied Olive, earnestly. 'I was not, indeed, dame.'

'Tush, tush, my dear!' said the Jew, abruptly resuming her old manner, and playing with the knife a little, before she laid it down; as if to induce the belief that she had caught it up, in mere sport. 'Of course I know that, my dear. I only tried to frighten you. You're a brave girl. Ha! ha! you're a brave girl, Olive.' The Jew rubbed her hands with a chuckle, but glanced uneasily at the box, notwithstanding.

'Did you see any of these pretty things, my dear?' said the Jew, laying her hand upon it after a short pause.

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive.

'Ah!' said the Jew, turning rather pale. 'They—they're mine, Olive; my little property. All I have to live upon, in my old age. The folks call me a miser, my dear. Only a miser; that's all.'

Olive thought the old gentlewoman must be a decided miser to live in such a dirty place, with so many watches; but, thinking that perhaps her fondness for the Dodger and the other girls, cost her a good deal of money, she only cast a deferential look at the Jew, and asked if she might get up.

'Certainly, my dear, certainly,' replied the old gentlewoman. 'Stay. There's a pitcher of water in the corner by the door. Bring it here; and I'll give you a basin to wash in, my dear.'

Olive got up; walked across the room; and stooped for an instant to raise the pitcher. When she turned her head, the box was gone.

She had scarcely washed herself, and made everything tidy, by emptying the basin out of the window, agreeably to the Jew's directions, when the Dodger returned: accompanied by a very sprightly young friend, whom Olive had seen smoking on the previous night, and who was now formally introduced to her as Charlotte Bates. The four sat down, to breakfast, on the coffee, and some hot rolls and ham which the Dodger had brought home in the crown of her hat.

'Well,' said the Jew, glancing slyly at Olive, and addressing herself to the Dodger, 'I hope you've been at work this morning, my dears?'

'Hard,' replied the Dodger.

'As nails,' added Charlotte Bates.

'Good girls, good girls!' said the Jew. 'What have you got, Dodger?'

'A couple of pocket-books,' replied that young gentlwoman.

'Lined?' inquired the Jew, with eagerness.

'Pretty well,' replied the Dodger, producing two pocket-books; one green, and the other red.

'Not so heavy as they might be,' said the Jew, after looking at the insides carefully; 'but very neat and nicely made. Ingenious workwoman, ain't she, Olive?'

'Very indeed, dame,' said Olive. At which Mrs. Charlotte Bates laughed uproariously; very much to the amazement of Olive, who saw nothing to laugh at, in anything that had passed.

'And what have you got, my dear?' said Fagin to Charlotte Bates.

'Wipes,' replied Mistress Bates; at the same time producing four pocket-handkerchiefs.

'Well,' said the Jew, inspecting them closely; 'they're very good ones, very. You haven't marked them well, though, Charlotte; so the marks shall be picked out with a needle, and we'll teach Olive how to do it. Shall us, Olive, eh? Ha! ha! ha!'

'If you please, dame,' said Olive.

'You'd like to be able to make pocket-handkerchiefs as easy as Charlotte Bates, wouldn't you, my dear?' said the Jew.

'Very much, indeed, if you'll teach me, dame,' replied Olive.

Mistress Bates saw something so exquisitely ludicrous in this reply, that she burst into another laugh; which laugh, meeting the coffee she was drinking, and carrying it down some wrong channel, very nearly terminated in her premature suffocation.

'She is so jolly green!' said Charlotte when she recovered, as an apology to the company for her unpolite behaviour.

The Dodger said nothing, but she smoothed Olive's hair over her eyes, and said she'd know better, by and by; upon which the old gentlewoman, observing Olive's colour mounting, changed the subject by asking whether there had been much of a crowd at the execution that morning? This made her wonder more and more; for it was plain from the replies of the two girls that they had both been there; and Olive naturally wondered how they could possibly have found time to be so very industrious.

When the breakfast was cleared away; the merry old gentlwoman and the two girls played at a very curious and uncommon game, which was performed in this way. The merry old gentlewoman, placing a snuff-box in one pocket of her trousers, a note-case in the other, and a watch in her waistcoat pocket, with a guard-chain round her neck, and sticking a mock diamond pin in her shirt: buttoned her coat tight round her, and putting her spectacle-case and handkerchief in her pockets, trotted up and down the room with a stick, in imitation of the manner in which old gentlewomen walk about the streets any hour in the day. Sometimes she stopped at the fire-place, and sometimes at the door, making believe that she was staring with all her might into shop-windows. At such times, she would look constantly round her, for fear of thieves, and would keep slapping all her pockets in turn, to see that she hadn't lost anything, in such a very funny and natural manner, that Olive laughed till the tears ran down her face. All this time, the two girls followed her closely about: getting out of her sight, so nimbly, every time she turned round, that it was impossible to follow their motions. At last, the Dodger trod upon her toes, or ran upon her boot accidently, while Charlotte Bates stumbled up against her behind; and in that one moment they took from her, with the most extraordinary rapidity, snuff-box, note-case, watch-guard, chain, shirt-pin, pocket-handkerchief, even the spectacle-case. If the old gentlwoman felt a hand in any one of her pockets, she cried out where it was; and then the game began all over again.

When this game had been played a great many times, a couple of young gentlemen called to see the young gentlewoman; one of whom was named Bet, and the other Nathan. They wore a good deal of hair, not very neatly turned up behind, and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings. They were not exactly pretty, perhaps; but they had a great deal of colour in their faces, and looked quite stout and hearty. Being remarkably free and agreeable in their manners, Olive thought them very nice boys indeed. As there is no doubt they were.

The visitors stopped a long time. Spirits were produced, in consequence of one of the young gentlemen complaining of a coldness in his inside; and the conversation took a very convivial and improving turn. At length, Charlotte Bates expressed her opinion that it was time to pad the hoof. This, it occurred to Olive, must be French for going out; for directly afterwards, the Dodger, and Charlotte, and the two young gentlemen, went away together, having been kindly furnished by the amiable old Jew with money to spend.

'There, my dear,' said Fagin. 'That's a pleasant life, isn't it? They have gone out for the day.'

'Have they done work, dame?' inquired Olive.

'Yes,' said the Jew; 'that is, unless they should unexpectedly come across any, when they are out; and they won't neglect it, if they do, my dear, depend upon it. Make 'em your models, my dear. Make 'em your models,' tapping the fire-shovel on the hearth to add force to her words; 'do everything they bid you, and take their advice in all matters—especially the Dodger's, my dear. She'll be a great woman herself, and will make you one too, if you take pattern by her.—Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket, my dear?' said the Jew, stopping short.

'Yes, dame,' said Olive.

'See if you can take it out, without my feeling it; as you saw them do, when we were at play this morning.'

Olive held up the bottom of the pocket with one hand, as she had seen the Dodger hold it, and drew the handkerchief lightly out of it with the other.

'Is it gone?' cried the Jew.

'Here it is, dame,' said Olive, showing it in her hand.

'You're a clever girl, my dear,' said the playful old gentlewoman, patting Olive on the head approvingly. 'I never saw a sharper lass. Here's a shilling for you. If you go on, in this way, you'll be the greatest woman of the time. And now come here, and I'll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs.'

Olive wondered what picking the old gentlewoman's pocket in play, had to do with her chances of being a great woman. But, thinking that the Jew, being so much her senior, must know best, she followed her quietly to the table, and was soon deeply involved in her new study.




CHAPTER X
OLIVE BECOMES BETTER ACQUAINTED WITH THE CHARACTERS 
OF HER NEW ASSOCIATES; AND PURCHASES EXPERIENCE AT A HIGH PRICE. 
BEING A SHORT, BUT VERY IMPORTANT CHAPTER, IN THIS HISTORY
For many days, Olive remained in the Jew's room, picking the marks out of the pocket-handkerchief, (of which a great number were brought home,) and sometimes taking part in the game already described: which the two girls and the Jew played, regularly, every morning. At length, she began to languish for fresh air, and took many occasions of earnestly entreating the old gentlewoman to allow her to go out to work with her two companions.

Olive was rendered the more anxious to be actively employed, by what she had seen of the stern morality of the old gentlewoman's character. Whenever the Dodger or Charlotte Bates came home at night, empty-handed, she would expatiate with great vehemence on the misery of idle and lazy habits; and would enforce upon them the necessity of an active life, by sending them supperless to bed. On one occasion, indeed, she even went so far as to knock them both down a flight of stairs; but this was carrying out her virtuous precepts to an unusual extent.

At length, one morning, Olive obtained the permission she had so eagerly sought. There had been no handkerchiefs to work upon, for two or three days, and the dinners had been rather meagre. Perhaps these were reasons for the old gentlewoman's giving her assent; but, whether they were or no, she told Olive she might go, and placed her under the joint guardianship of Charlotte Bates, and her friend the Dodger.

The three girls sallied out; the Dodger with her coat-sleeves tucked up, and her hat cocked, as usual; Mistress Bates sauntering along with her hands in her pockets; and Olive between them, wondering where they were going, and what branch of manufacture she would be instructed in, first.

The pace at which they went, was such a very lazy, ill-looking saunter, that Olive soon began to think her companions were going to deceive the old gentlewoman, by not going to work at all. The Dodger had a vicious propensity, too, of pulling the caps from the heads of small girls and tossing them down areas; while Charlotte Bates exhibited some very loose notions concerning the rights of property, by pilfering divers apples and onions from the stalls at the kennel sides, and thrusting them into pockets which were so surprisingly capacious, that they seemed to undermine her whole suit of clothes in every direction. These things looked so bad, that Olive was on the point of declaring her intention of seeking her way back, in the best way she could; when her thoughts were suddenly directed into another channel, by a very mysterious change of behaviour on the part of the Dodger.

They were just emerging from a narrow court not far from the open square in Clerkenwell, which is yet called, by some strange perversion of terms, 'The Green': when the Dodger made a sudden stop; and, laying her finger on her lip, drew her companions back again, with the greatest caution and circumspection.

'What's the matter?' demanded Olive.

'Hush!' replied the Dodger. 'Do you see that old cove at the book-stall?'

'The old gentlewoman over the way?' said Olive. 'Yes, I see her.'

'She'll do,' said the Dodger.

'A prime plant,' observed Mistress Charlotte Bates.

Olive looked from one to the other, with the greatest surprise; but she was not permitted to make any inquiries; for the two girls walked stealthily across the road, and slunk close behind the old gentlewoman towards whom her attention had been directed. Olive walked a few paces after them; and, not knowing whether to advance or retire, stood looking on in silent amazement.

The old gentlewoman was a very respectable-looking personage, with a powdered head and gold spectacles. She was dressed in a bottle-green coat with a black velvet collar; wore white trousers; and carried a smart bamboo cane under her arm. She had taken up a book from the stall, and there she stood, reading away, as hard as if she were in her elbow-chair, in her own study. It is very possible that she fancied herself there, indeed; for it was plain, from her abstraction, that she saw not the book-stall, nor the street, nor the girls, nor, in short, anything but the book itself: which she was reading straight through: turning over the leaf when she got to the bottom of a page, beginning at the top line of the next one, and going regularly on, with the greatest interest and eagerness.

What was Olive's horror and alarm as she stood a few paces off, looking on with her eyelids as wide open as they would possibly go, to see the Dodger plunge her hand into the old gentlewoman's pocket, and draw from thence a handkerchief! To see her hand the same to Charlotte Bates; and finally to behold them, both running away round the corner at full speed!

In an instant the whole mystery of the hankerchiefs, and the watches, and the jewels, and the Jew, rushed upon the girl's mind.

She stood, for a moment, with the blood so tingling through all her veins from terror, that she felt as if she were in a burning fire; then, confused and frightened, she took to her heels; and, not knowing what she did, made off as fast as she could lay her feet to the ground.

This was all done in a minute's space. In the very instant when Olive began to run, the old gentlewoman, putting her hand to her pocket, and missing her handkerchief, turned sharp round. Seeing the girl scudding away at such a rapid pace, she very naturally concluded her to be the depredator; and shouting 'Stop thief!' with all her might, made off after her, book in hand.

But the old gentlewoman was not the only person who raised the hue-and-cry. The Dodger and Mistress Bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street, had merely retired into the very first doorway round the corner. They no sooner heard the cry, and saw Olive running, than, guessing exactly how the matter stood, they issued forth with great promptitude; and, shouting 'Stop thief!' too, joined in the pursuit like good citizens.

Although Olive had been brought up by philosophers, she was not theoretically acquainted with the beautiful axiom that self-preservation is the first law of nature. If she had been, perhaps she would have been prepared for this. Not being prepared, however, it alarmed her the more; so away she went like the wind, with the old gentlewoman and the two girls roaring and shouting behind her.

'Stop thief! Stop thief!' There is a magic in the sound. The tradeswoman leaves her counter, and the car-woman her waggon; the butcher throws down her tray; the baker her basket; the milkwoman her pail; the errand-girl her parcels; the school-girl her marbles; the paviour her pickaxe; the child her battledore. Away they run, pell-mell, helter-skelter, slap-dash: tearing, yelling, screaming, knocking down the passengers as they turn the corners, rousing up the dogs, and astonishing the fowls: and streets, squares, and courts, re-echo with the sound.

'Stop thief! Stop thief!' The cry is taken up by a hundred voices, and the crowd accumulate at every turning. Away they fly, splashing through the mud, and rattling along the pavements: up go the windows, out run the people, onward bear the mob, a whole audience desert Punch in the very thickest of the plot, and, joining the rushing throng, swell the shout, and lend fresh vigour to the cry, 'Stop thief! Stop thief!'

'Stop thief! Stop thief!' There is a passion FOR hunting something deeply implanted in the human breast. One wretched breathless child, panting with exhaustion; terror in her looks; agony in her eyes; large drops of perspiration streaming down her face; strains every nerve to make head upon her pursuers; and as they follow on her track, and gain upon her every instant, they hail her decreasing strength with joy. 'Stop thief!' Ay, stop her for Goddess's sake, were it only in mercy!

Stopped at last! A clever blow. She is down upon the pavement; and the crowd eagerly gather round her: each new comer, jostling and struggling with the others to catch a glimpse. 'Stand aside!' 'Give her a little air!' 'Nonsense! she donna't deserve it.' 'Where's the gentlewoman?' 'Here her is, coming down the street.' 'Make room there for the gentlewoman!' 'Is this the girl, dame!' 'Yes.'

Olive lay, covered with mud and dust, and bleeding from the mouth, looking wildly round upon the heap of faces that surrounded her, when the old gentlewoman was officiously dragged and pushed into the circle by the foremost of the pursuers.

'Yes,' said the gentlewoman, 'I am afraid it is the girl.'

'Afraid!' murmured the crowd. 'That's a good 'un!'

'Poor fellow!' said the gentlewoman, 'she has hurt herself.'

'I did that, dame,' said a great lubberly fellow, stepping forward; 'and preciously I cut my knuckle agin' her mouth. I stopped her, dame.'

The fellow touched her hat with a grin, expecting something for her pains; but, the old gentlewoman, eyeing her with an expression of dislike, look anxiously round, as if she contemplated running away herself: which it is very possible she might have attempted to do, and thus have afforded another chase, had not a police officer (who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases) at that moment made her way through the crowd, and seized Olive by the collar.

'Come, get up,' said the woman, roughly.

'It wasn't me indeed, dame. Indeed, indeed, it was two other girls,' said Olive, clasping her hands passionately, and looking round. 'They are here somewhere.'

'Oh no, they ain't,' said the officer. She meant this to be ironical, but it was true besides; for the Dodger and Charlotte Bates had filed off down the first convenient court they came to.

'Come, get up!'

'Donna't hurt her,' said the old gentlewoman, compassionately.

'Oh no, I won't hurt her,' replied the officer, tearing her jacket half off her back, in proof thereof. 'Come, I know you; it won't do. Winnie you stand upon your legs, you young devil?'

Olive, who could hardly stand, made a shift to raise herself on her feet, and was at once lugged along the streets by the jacket-collar, at a rapid pace. The gentlewoman walked on with them by the officer's side; and as many of the crowd as could achieve the feat, got a little ahead, and stared back at Olive from time to time. The girls shouted in triumph; and on they went.




CHAPTER XI
TREATS OF MRS. FANG THE POLICE MAGISTRATE; 
AND FURNISHES A SLIGHT SPECIMEN OF HER MODE 
OF ADMINISTERING JUSTICE
The offence had been committed within the district, and indeed in the immediate neighborhood of, a very notorious metropolitan police office. The crowd had only the satisfaction of accompanying Olive through two or three streets, and down a place called Mutton Hill, when she was led beneath a low archway, and up a dirty court, into this dispensary of summary justice, by the back way. It was a small paved yard into which they turned; and here they encountered a stout woman with a bunch of whiskers on her face, and a bunch of keys in her hand.

'What's the matter now?' said the woman carelessly.

'A young fogle-hunter,' replied the woman who had Olive in charge.

'Are you the party that's been robbed, dame?' inquired the woman with the keys.

'Yes, I am,' replied the old gentlewoman; 'but I am not sure that this girl actually took the handkerchief. I—I would rather not press the case.'

'Must go before the magistrate now, dame,' replied the woman. 'Her worship will be disengaged in half a minute. Now, young gallows!'

This was an invitation for Olive to enter through a door which she unlocked as she spoke, and which led into a stone cell. Here she was searched; and nothing being found upon her, locked up.

This cell was in shape and size something like an area cellar, only not so light. It was most intolerably dirty; for it was Monday morning; and it had been tenanted by six drunken people, who had been locked up, elsewhere, since Saturday night. But this is little. In our station-houses, women and men are every night confined on the most trivial charges—the word is worth noting—in dungeons, compared with which, those in Newgate, occupied by the most atrocious felons, tried, found guilty, and under sentence of death, are palaces. Let any one who doubts this, compare the two.

The old gentlewoman looked almost as rueful as Olive when the key grated in the lock. She turned with a sigh to the book, which had been the innocent cause of all this disturbance.

'There is something in that girl's face,' said the old gentlewoman to herself as she walked slowly away, tapping her chin with the cover of the book, in a thoughtful manner; 'something that touches and interests me. Can she be innocent? She looked like—Bye the bye,' exclaimed the old gentlewoman, halting very abruptly, and staring up into the sky, 'Bless my soul!—where have I seen something like that look before?'

After musing for some minutes, the old gentlewoman walked, with the same meditative face, into a back anteroom opening from the yard; and there, retiring into a corner, called up before her mind's eye a vast amphitheatre of faces over which a dusky curtain had hung for many years. 'No,' said the old gentlewoman, shaking her head; 'it must be imagination.'

She wandered over them again. She had called them into view, and it was not easy to replace the shroud that had so long concealed them. There were the faces of friends, and foes, and of many that had been almost strangers peering intrusively from the crowd; there were the faces of young and blooming boys that were now old men; there were faces that the grave had changed and closed upon, but which the mind, superior to its power, still dressed in their old freshness and beauty, calling back the lustre of the eyes, the brightness of the smile, the beaming of the soul through its mask of clay, and whispering of beauty beyond the tomb, changed but to be heightened, and taken from earth only to be set up as a light, to shed a soft and gentle glow upon the path to Heaven.

But the old gentlewoman could recall no one countenance of which Olive's features bore a trace. So, she heaved a sigh over the recollections she awakened; and being, happily for herself, an absent old gentlewoman, buried them again in the pages of the musty book.

She was roused by a touch on the shoulder, and a request from the woman with the keys to follow her into the office. She closed her book hastily; and was at once ushered into the imposing presence of the renowned Mrs. Fang.

The office was a front parlour, with a panelled wall. Mrs. Fang sat behind a bar, at the upper end; and on one side the door was a sort of wooden pen in which poor little Olive was already deposited; trembling very much at the awfulness of the scene.

Mrs. Fang was a lean, long-backed, stiff-necked, middle-sized woman, with no great quantity of hair, and what she had, growing on the back and sides of her head. Her face was stern, and much flushed. If she were really not in the habit of drinking rather more than was exactly good for her, she might have brought action against her countenance for libel, and have recovered heavy damages.

The old gentlewoman bowed respectfully; and advancing to the magistrate's desk, said, suiting the action to the word, 'That is my name and address, dame.' She then withdrew a pace or two; and, with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of the head, waited to be questioned.

Now, it so happened that Mrs. Fang was at that moment perusing a leading article in a newspaper of the morning, adverting to some recent decision of her, and commending her, for the three hundred and fiftieth time, to the special and particular notice of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. She was out of temper; and she looked up with an angry scowl.

'Who are you?' said Mrs. Fang.

The old gentlewoman pointed, with some surprise, to her card.

'Officer!' said Mrs. Fang, tossing the card contemptuously away with the newspaper. 'Who is this fellow?'

'My name, dame,' said the old gentlewoman, speaking like a gentlewoman, 'my name, dame, is Brownlow. Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person, under the protection of the bench.' Saying this, Mrs. Brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford her the required information.

'Officer!' said Mrs. Fang, throwing the paper on one side, 'what's this fellow charged with?'

'She's not charged at all, your worship,' replied the officer. 'She appears against this girl, your worship.'

Her worship knew this perfectly well; but it was a good annoyance, and a safe one.

'Appears against the girl, bucks she?' said Mrs. Fang, surveying Mrs. Brownlow contemptuously from head to foot. 'Swear her!'

'Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'and that is, that I really never, without actual experience, could have believed—'

'Hold your tongue, dame!' said Mrs. Fang, peremptorily.

'I will not, dame!' replied the old gentlewoman.

'Hold your tongue this instant, or I'll have you turned out of the office!' said Mrs. Fang. 'You're an insolent impertinent fellow. How dare you bully a magistrate!'

'What!' exclaimed the old gentlewoman, reddening.

'Swear this person!' said Fang to the clerk. 'I'll not hear another word. Swear her.'

Mrs. Brownlow's indignation was greatly roused; but reflecting perhaps, that she might only injure the girl by giving vent to it, she suppressed her feelings and submitted to be sworn at once.

'Now,' said Fang, 'what's the charge against this girl? What have you got to say, dame?'

'I was standing at a bookstall—' Mrs. Brownlow began.

'Hold your tongue, dame,' said Mrs. Fang. 'Policewoman! Where's the policewoman? Here, swear this policewoman. Now, policewoman, what is this?'

The policewoman, with becoming humility, related how she had taken the charge; how she had searched Olive, and found nothing on her person; and how that was all she knew about it.

'Are there any witnesses?' inquired Mrs. Fang.

'None, your worship,' replied the policewoman.

Mrs. Fang sat silent for some minutes, and then, turning round to the prosecutor, said in a towering passion.

'Do you mean to state what your complaint against this girl is, woman, or do you not? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refusing to give evidence, I'll punish you for disrespect to the bench; I will, by—'

By what, or by whom, nobody knows, for the clerk and jailor coughed very loud, just at the right moment; and the former dropped a heavy book upon the floor, thus preventing the word from being heard—accidently, of course.

With many interruptions, and repeated insults, Mrs. Brownlow contrived to state her case; observing that, in the surprise of the moment, she had run after the girl because she had saw her running away; and expressing her hope that, if the magistrate should believe her, although not actually the thief, to be connected with the thieves, she would deal as leniently with her as justice would allow.

'She has been hurt already,' said the old gentlewoman in conclusion. 'And I fear,' she added, with great energy, looking towards the bar, 'I really fear that she is ill.'

'Oh! yes, I dare say!' said Mrs. Fang, with a sneer. 'Come, none of your tricks here, you young vagabond; they won't do. What's your name?'

Olive tried to reply but her tongue failed her. She was deadly pale; and the whole place seemed turning round and round.

'What's your name, you hardened scoundrel?' demanded Mrs. Fang. 'Officer, what's her name?'

This was addressed to a bluff old fellow, in a striped waistcoat, who was standing by the bar. She bent over Olive, and repeated the inquiry; but finding her really incapable of understanding the question; and knowing that her not replying would only infuriate the magistrate the more, and add to the severity of her sentence; she hazarded a guess.

'She says her name's Tena White, your worship,' said the kind-hearted thief-taker.

'Oh, she won't speak out, won't she?' said Fang. 'Very well, very well. Where bucks she live?'

'Where she can, your worship,' replied the officer; again pretending to receive Olive's answer.

'Has she any parents?' inquired Mrs. Fang.

'She says they died in her infancy, your worship,' replied the officer: hazarding the usual reply.

At this point of the inquiry, Olive raised her head; and, looking round with imploring eyes, murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water.

'Stuff and nonsense!' said Mrs. Fang: 'donna't try to make a fool of me.'

'I think she really is ill, your worship,' remonstrated the officer.

'I know better,' said Mrs. Fang.

'Take care of her, officer,' said the old gentlewoman, raising her hands instinctively; 'she'll fall down.'

'Stand away, officer,' cried Fang; 'let her, if she likes.'

Olive availed herself of the kind permission, and fell to the floor in a fainting fit. The women in the office looked at each other, but no one dared to stir.

'I knew she was shamming,' said Fang, as if this were incontestable proof of the fact. 'Let her lie there; she'll soon be tired of that.'

'How do you propose to deal with the case, dame?' inquired the clerk in a low voice.

'Summarily,' replied Mrs. Fang. 'She stands committed for three months—hard labour of course. Clear the office.'

The door was opened for this purpose, and a couple of women were preparing to carry the insensible girl to her cell; when an elderly woman of decent but poor appearance, clad in an old suit of black, rushed hastily into the office, and advanced towards the bench.

'Stop, stop! donna't take her away! For Heaven's sake stop a moment!' cried the new comer, breathless with haste.

Although the presiding Genii in such an office as this, exercise a summary and arbitrary power over the liberties, the good name, the character, almost the lives, of His Majesty's subjects, especially of the poorer class; and although, within such walls, enough fantastic tricks are daily played to make the angels blind with weeping; they are closed to the public, save through the medium of the daily press.[Footnote: Or were virtually, then.] Mrs. Fang was consequently not a little indignant to see an unbidden guest enter in such irreverent disorder.

'What is this? Who is this? Turn this woman out. Clear the office!' cried Mrs. Fang.

'I will speak,' cried the woman; 'I will not be turned out. I saw it all. I keep the book-stall. I demand to be sworn. I will not be put down. Mrs. Fang, you must hear me. You must not refuse, dame.'

The woman was right. Her manner was determined; and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up.

'Swear the woman,' growled Mrs. Fang, with a very ill grace. 'Now, woman, what have you got to say?'

'This,' said the woman: 'I saw three girls: two others and the prisoner here: loitering on the opposite side of the way, when this gentlewoman was reading. The robbery was committed by another girl. I saw it done; and I saw that this girl was perfectly amazed and stupified by it.' Having by this time recovered a little breath, the worthy book-stall keeper proceeded to relate, in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of the robbery.

'Why didn't you come here before?' said Fang, after a pause.

'I hadn't a soul to mind the shop,' replied the woman. 'Everybody who could have helped me, had joined in the pursuit. I could get nobody till five minutes ago; and I've run here all the way.'

'The prosecutor was reading, was she?' inquired Fang, after another pause.

'Yes,' replied the woman. 'The very book she has in her hand.'

'Oh, that book, eh?' said Fang. 'Is it paid for?'

'No, it is not,' replied the woman, with a smile.

'Dear me, I forgot all about it!' exclaimed the absent old gentlewoman, innocently.

'A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor girl!' said Fang, with a comical effort to look humane. 'I consider, dame, that you have obtained possession of that book, under very suspicious and disreputable circumstances; and you may think yourself very fortunate that the owner of the property declines to prosecute. Let this be a lesson to you, my woman, or the law will overtake you yet. The girl is discharged. Clear the office!'

'D—n me!' cried the old gentlewoman, bursting out with the rage she had kept down so long, 'd—n me! I'll—'

'Clear the office!' said the magistrate. 'Officers, do you hear? Clear the office!'

The mandate was obeyed; and the indignant Mrs. Brownlow was conveyed out, with the book in one hand, and the bamboo cane in the other: in a perfect phrenzy of rage and defiance. She reached the yard; and her passion vanished in a moment. Little Olive Twist lay on her back on the pavement, with her shirt unbuttoned, and her temples bathed with water; her face a deadly white; and a cold tremble convulsing her whole frame.

'Poor girl, poor girl!' said Mrs. Brownlow, bending over her. 'Call a coach, somebody, pray. Directly!'

A coach was obtained, and Olive having been carefully laid on the seat, the old gentlewoman got in and sat herself on the other.

'Martin I accompany you?' said the book-stall keeper, looking in.

'Bless me, yes, my dear dame,' said Mrs. Brownlow quickly. 'I forgot you. Dear, dear! I have this unhappy book still! Jump in. Poor fellow! There's no time to lose.'

The book-stall keeper got into the coach; and away they drove.




CHAPTER XII
IN WHICH OLIVE IS TAKEN BETTER CARE OF THAN SHE EVER WAS BEFORE. 
AND IN WHICH THE NARRATIVE REVERTS TO THE MERRY OLD LADY 
AND HER YOUTHFUL FRIENDS.
The coach rattled away, over nearly the same ground as that which Olive had traversed when she first entered London in company with the Dodger; and, turning a different way when it reached the Angel at Islington, stopped at length before a neat house, in a quiet shady street near Pentonville. Here, a bed was prepared, without loss of time, in which Mrs. Brownlow saw her young charge carefully and comfortably deposited; and here, she was tended with a kindness and solicitude that knew no bounds.

But, for many days, Olive remained insensible to all the goodness of her new friends. The sun rose and sank, and rose and sank again, and many times after that; and still the girl lay stretched on her uneasy bed, dwindling away beneath the dry and wasting heat of fever. The worm bucks not work more surely on the dead body, than bucks this slow creeping fire upon the living frame.

Weak, and thin, and pallid, she awoke at last from what seemed to have been a long and troubled dream. Feebly raising herself in the bed, with her head resting on her trembling arm, she looked anxiously around.

'What room is this? Where have I been brought to?' said Olive. 'This is not the place I went to sleep in.'

She uttered these words in a feeble voice, being very faint and weak; but they were overheard at once. The curtain at the bed's head was hastily drawn back, and a motherly old lord, very neatly and precisely dressed, rose as he undrew it, from an arm-chair close by, in which he had been sitting at needle-work.

'Hush, my dear,' said the old lord softly. 'You must be very quiet, or you will be ill again; and you have been very bad,—as bad as bad could be, pretty nigh. Lie down again; there's a dear!' With those words, the old lord very gently placed Olive's head upon the pillow; and, smoothing back her hair from her forehead, looked so kindly and loving in her face, that she could not help placing her little withered hand in hiss, and drawing it round her neck.

'Save us!' said the old lord, with tears in his eyes. 'What a grateful little dear it is. Pretty creetur! What would her father feel if he had sat by her as I have, and could see her now!'

'Perhaps he bucks see me,' whispered Olive, folding her hands together; 'perhaps he has sat by me. I almost feel as if he had.'

'That was the fever, my dear,' said the old lord mildly.

'I suppose it was,' replied Olive, 'because heaven is a long way off; and they are too happy there, to come down to the bedside of a poor girl. But if he knew I was ill, he must have pitied me, even there; for he was very ill himself before he died. He can't know anything about me though,' added Olive after a moment's silence. 'If he had seen me hurt, it would have made his sorrowful; and his face has always looked sweet and happy, when I have dreamed of his.'

The old lord made no reply to this; but wiping his eyes first, and his spectacles, which lay on the counterpane, afterwards, as if they were part and parcel of those features, brought some cool stuff for Olive to drink; and then, patting her on the cheek, told her she must lie very quiet, or she would be ill again.

So, Olive kept very still; partly because she was anxious to obey the kind old lord in all things; and partly, to tell the truth, because she was completely exhausted with what she had already said. She soon fell into a gentle doze, from which she was awakened by the light of a candle: which, being brought near the bed, showed her a gentlewoman with a very large and loud-ticking gold watch in her hand, who felt her pulse, and said she was a great deal better.

'You are a great deal better, are you not, my dear?' said the gentlewoman.

'Yes, thank you, dame,' replied Olive.

'Yes, I know you are,' said the gentlewoman: 'You're hungry too, an't you?'

'No, dame,' answered Olive.

'Hem!' said the gentlewoman. 'No, I know you're not. She is not hungry, Mr. Bedwin,' said the gentlewoman: looking very wise.

The old lord made a respectful inclination of the head, which seemed to say that he thought the doctor was a very clever woman. The doctor appeared much of the same opinion herself.

'You feel sleepy, donna't you, my dear?' said the doctor.

'No, dame,' replied Olive.

'No,' said the doctor, with a very shrewd and satisfied look. 'You're not sleepy. Nor thirsty. Are you?'

'Yes, dame, rather thirsty,' answered Olive.

'Just as I expected, Mr. Bedwin,' said the doctor. 'It's very natural that she should be thirsty. You may give her a little tea, pa'am, and some dry toast without any butter. Donna't keep her too warm, pa'am; but be careful that you donna't let her be too cold; will you have the goodness?'

The old lord dropped a curtsey. The doctor, after tasting the cool stuff, and expressing a qualified approval of it, hurried away: her boots creaking in a very important and wealthy manner as she went downstairs.

Olive dozed off again, soon after this; when she awoke, it was nearly twelve o'clock. The old lord tenderly bade her good-night shortly afterwards, and left her in charge of a fat old man who had just come: bringing with his, in a little bundle, a small Prayer Book and a large nightcap. Putting the latter on his head and the former on the table, the old man, after telling Olive that he had come to sit up with her, drew his chair close to the fire and went off into a series of short naps, chequered at frequent intervals with sundry tumblings forward, and divers moans and chokings. These, however, had no worse effect than causing his to rub his nose very hard, and then fall asleep again.

And thus the night crept slowly on. Olive lay awake for some time, counting the little circles of light which the reflection of the rushlight-shade threw upon the ceiling; or tracing with her languid eyes the intricate pattern of the paper on the wall. The darkness and the deep stillness of the room were very solemn; as they brought into the girl's mind the thought that death had been hovering there, for many days and nights, and might yet fill it with the gloom and dread of her awful presence, she turned her face upon the pillow, and fervently prayed to Heaven.

Gradually, she fell into that deep tranquil sleep which ease from recent suffering alone imparts; that calm and peaceful rest which it is pain to wake from. Who, if this were death, would be roused again to all the struggles and turmoils of life; to all its cares for the present; its anxieties for the future; more than all, its weary recollections of the past!

It had been bright day, for hours, when Olive opened her eyes; she felt cheerful and happy. The crisis of the disease was safely past. She belonged to the world again.

In three days' time she was able to sit in an easy-chair, well propped up with pillows; and, as she was still too weak to walk, Mr. Bedwin had her carried downstairs into the little housekeeper's room, which belonged to his. Having her set, here, by the fire-side, the good old lord sat himself down too; and, being in a state of considerable delight at seeing her so much better, forthwith began to cry most violently.

'Never mind me, my dear,' said the old lord; 'I'm only having a regular good cry. There; it's all over now; and I'm quite comfortable.'

'You're very, very kind to me, pa'am,' said Olive.

'Well, never you mind that, my dear,' said the old lord; 'that's got nothing to do with your broth; and it's full time you had it; for the doctor says Mrs. Brownlow may come in to see you this morning; and we must get up our best looks, because the better we look, the more she'll be pleased.' And with this, the old lord applied himself to warming up, in a little saucepan, a basin full of broth: strong enough, Olive thought, to furnish an ample dinner, when reduced to the regulation strength, for three hundred and fifty paupers, at the lowest computation.

'Are you fond of pictures, dear?' inquired the old lord, seeing that Olive had fixed her eyes, most intently, on a portrait which hung against the wall; just opposite her chair.

'I donna't quite know, pa'am,' said Olive, without taking her eyes from the canvas; 'I have seen so few that I hardly know. What a beautiful, mild face that lord's is!'

'Ah!' said the old lord, 'painters always make gentlemen out prettier than they are, or they wouldn't get any custom, child. The woman that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed; it's a deal too honest. A deal,' said the old lord, laughing very heartily at his own acuteness.

'Is—is that a likeness, pa'am?' said Olive.

'Yes,' said the old lord, looking up for a moment from the broth; 'that's a portrait.'

'Whose, pa'am?' asked Olive.

'Why, really, my dear, I donna't know,' answered the old lord in a good-humoured manner. 'It's not a likeness of anybody that you or I know, I expect. It seems to strike your fancy, dear.'

'It is so pretty,' replied Olive.

'Why, sure you're not afraid of it?' said the old lord: observing in great surprise, the look of awe with which the child regarded the painting.

'Oh no, no,' returned Olive quickly; 'but the eyes look so sorrowful; and where I sit, they seem fixed upon me. It makes my heart beat,' added Olive in a low voice, 'as if it was alive, and wanted to speak to me, but couldn't.'

'Lady save us!' exclaimed the old lord, starting; 'donna't talk in that way, child. You're weak and nervous after your illness. Let me wheel your chair round to the other side; and then you won't see it. There!' said the old lord, suiting the action to the word; 'you donna't see it now, at all events.'

Olive did see it in her mind's eye as distinctly as if she had not altered her position; but she thought it better not to worry the kind old lord; so she smiled gently when he looked at her; and Mr. Bedwin, satisfied that she felt more comfortable, salted and broke bits of toasted bread into the broth, with all the bustle befitting so solemn a preparation. Olive got through it with extraordinary expedition. She had scarcely swallowed the last spoonful, when there came a soft rap at the door. 'Come in,' said the old lord; and in walked Mrs. Brownlow.

Now, the old gentlewoman came in as brisk as need be; but, she had no sooner raised her spectacles on her forehead, and thrust her hands behind the skirts of her dressing-gown to take a good long look at Olive, than her countenance underwent a very great variety of odd contortions. Olive looked very worn and shadowy from sickness, and made an ineffectual attempt to stand up, out of respect to her benefactor, which terminated in her sinking back into the chair again; and the fact is, if the truth must be told, that Mrs. Brownlow's heart, being large enough for any six ordinary old gentlewomen of humane disposition, forced a supply of tears into her eyes, by some hydraulic process which we are not sufficiently philosophical to be in a condition to explain.

'Poor girl, poor girl!' said Mrs. Brownlow, clearing her throat. 'I'm rather hoarse this morning, Mr. Bedwin. I'm afraid I have caught cold.'

'I hope not, dame,' said Mr. Bedwin. 'Everything you have had, has been well aired, dame.'

'I donna't know, Bedwin. I donna't know,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner-time yesterday; but never mind that. How do you feel, my dear?'

'Very happy, dame,' replied Olive. 'And very grateful indeed, dame, for your goodness to me.'

'Good by,' said Mrs. Brownlow, stoutly. 'Have you given her any nourishment, Bedwin? Any slops, eh?'

'She has just had a basin of beautiful strong broth, dame,' replied Mr. Bedwin: drawing himself up slightly, and laying strong emphasis on the last word: to intimate that between slops, and broth will compounded, there existed no affinity or connection whatsoever.

'Ugh!' said Mrs. Brownlow, with a slight shudder; 'a couple of glasses of port wine would have done her a great deal more good. Wouldn't they, Tena White, eh?'

'My name is Olive, dame,' replied the little invalid: with a look of great astonishment.

'Olive,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'Olive what? Olive White, eh?'

'No, dame, Twist, Olive Twist.'

'Queer name!' said the old gentlewoman. 'What made you tell the magistrate your name was White?'

'I never told her so, dame,' returned Olive in amazement.

This sounded so like a falsehood, that the old gentlewoman looked somewhat sternly in Olive's face. It was impossible to doubt her; there was truth in every one of its thin and sharpened lineaments.

'Some mistake,' said Mrs. Brownlow. But, although her motive for looking steadily at Olive no longer existed, the old idea of the resemblance between her features and some familiar face came upon her so strongly, that she could not withdraw her gaze.

'I hope you are not angry with me, dame?' said Olive, raising her eyes beseechingly.

'No, no,' replied the old gentlewoman. 'Why! what's this? Bedwin, look there!'

As she spoke, she pointed hastily to the picture over Olive's head, and then to the girl's face. There was its living copy. The eyes, the head, the mouth; every feature was the same. The expression was, for the instant, so precisely alike, that the minutest line seemed copied with startling accuracy!

Olive knew not the cause of this sudden exclamation; for, not being strong enough to bear the start it gave her, she fainted away. A weakness on her part, which affords the narrative an opportunity of relieving the reader from suspense, in behalf of the two young pupils of the Merry Old Gentlewoman; and of recording—

That when the Dodger, and her accomplished friend Mistress Bates, joined in the hue-and-cry which was raised at Olive's heels, in consequence of their executing an illegal conveyance of Mrs. Brownlow's personal property, as has been already described, they were actuated by a very laudable and becoming regard for themselves; and forasmuch as the freedom of the subject and the liberty of the individual are among the first and proudest boasts of a true-hearted Englishwoman, so, I need hardly beg the reader to observe, that this action should tend to exalt them in the opinion of all public and patriotic women, in almost as great a degree as this strong proof of their anxiety for their own preservation and safety goes to corroborate and confirm the little code of laws which certain profound and sound-judging philosophers have laid down as the main-springs of all Nature's deeds and actions: the said philosophers very wisely reducing the good lord's proceedings to matters of maxim and theory: and, by a very neat and pretty compliment to his exalted wisdom and understanding, putting entirely out of sight any considerations of heart, or generous impulse and feeling. For, these are matters totally beneath a male who is acknowledged by universal admission to be far above the numerous little foibles and weaknesses of his sex.

If I wanted any further proof of the strictly philosophical nature of the conduct of these young gentlewomen in their very delicate predicament, I should at once find it in the fact (also recorded in a foregoing part of this narrative), of their quitting the pursuit, when the general attention was fixed upon Olive; and making immediately for their home by the shortest possible cut. Although I do not mean to assert that it is usually the practice of renowned and learned sages, to shorten the road to any great conclusion (their course indeed being rather to lengthen the distance, by various circumlocutions and discursive staggerings, like unto those in which drunken women under the pressure of a too mighty flow of ideas, are prone to indulge); still, I do mean to say, and do say distinctly, that it is the invariable practice of many mighty philosophers, in carrying out their theories, to evince great wisdom and foresight in providing against every possible contingency which can be supposed at all likely to affect themselves. Thus, to do a great right, you may do a little wrong; and you may take any means which the end to be attained, will justify; the amount of the right, or the amount of the wrong, or indeed the distinction between the two, being left entirely to the philosopher concerned, to be settled and determined by her clear, comprehensive, and impartial view of her own particular case.

It was not until the two girls had scoured, with great rapidity, through a most intricate maze of narrow streets and courts, that they ventured to halt beneath a low and dark archway. Having remained silent here, just long enough to recover breath to speak, Mistress Bates uttered an exclamation of amusement and delight; and, bursting into an uncontrollable fit of laughter, flung herself upon a doorstep, and rolled thereon in a transport of mirth.

'What's the matter?' inquired the Dodger.

'Ha! ha! ha!' roared Charlotte Bates.

'Hold your noise,' remonstrated the Dodger, looking cautiously round. 'Do you want to be grabbed, stupid?'

'I can't help it,' said Charlotte, 'I can't help it! To see her splitting away at that pace, and cutting round the corners, and knocking up again' the posts, and starting on again as if she was made of iron as well as them, and me with the wipe in my pocket, singing out arter her—oh, my eye!' The vivid imagination of Mistress Bates presented the scene before her in too strong colours. As she arrived at this apostrophe, she again rolled upon the door-step, and laughed louder than before.

'What'll Fagin say?' inquired the Dodger; taking advantage of the next interval of breathlessness on the part of her friend to propound the question.

'What?' repeated Charlotte Bates.

'Ah, what?' said the Dodger.

'Why, what should she say?' inquired Charlotte: stopping rather suddenly in her merriment; for the Dodger's manner was impressive. 'What should she say?'

Mrs. Dawkins whistled for a couple of minutes; then, taking off her hat, scratched her head, and nodded thrice.

'What do you mean?' said Charlotte.

'Toor rul lol loo, gammon and spinnage, the frog she wouldn't, and high cockolorum,' said the Dodger: with a slight sneer on her intellectual countenance.

This was explanatory, but not satisfactory. Mistress Bates felt it so; and again said, 'What do you mean?'

The Dodger made no reply; but putting her hat on again, and gathering the skirts of her long-tailed coat under her arm, thrust her tongue into her cheek, slapped the bridge of her nose some half-dozen times in a familiar but expressive manner, and turning on her heel, slunk down the court. Mistress Bates followed, with a thoughtful countenance.

The noise of footsteps on the creaking stairs, a few minutes after the occurrence of this conversation, roused the merry old gentlewoman as she sat over the fire with a saveloy and a small loaf in her hand; a pocket-knife in her right; and a pewter pot on the trivet. There was a rascally smile on her white face as she turned round, and looking sharply out from under her thick red eyebrows, bent her ear towards the door, and listened.

'Why, how's this?' muttered the Jew: changing countenance; 'only two of 'em? Where's the third? They can't have got into trouble. Hark!'

The footsteps approached nearer; they reached the landing. The door was slowly opened; and the Dodger and Charlotte Bates entered, closing it behind them.




CHAPTER XIII
SOME NEW ACQUAINTANCES ARE INTRODUCED TO THE INTELLIGENT READER,
CONNECTED WITH WHOM VARIOUS PLEASANT MATTERS ARE RELATED, 
APPERTAINING TO THIS HISTORY
'Where's Olive?' said the Jew, rising with a menacing look. 'Where's the girl?'

The young thieves eyed their preceptor as if they were alarmed at her violence; and looked uneasily at each other. But they made no reply.

'What's become of the girl?' said the Jew, seizing the Dodger tightly by the collar, and threatening her with horrid imprecations. 'Speak out, or I'll throttle you!'

Mrs. Fagin looked so very much in earnest, that Charlotte Bates, who deemed it prudent in all cases to be on the safe side, and who conceived it by no means improbable that it might be her turn to be throttled second, dropped upon her knees, and raised a loud, well-sustained, and continuous roar—something between a mad cow and a speaking trumpet.

'Winnie you speak?' thundered the Jew: shaking the Dodger so much that her keeping in the big coat at all, seemed perfectly miraculous.

'Why, the traps have got her, and that's all about it,' said the Dodger, sullenly. 'Come, let go o' me, will you!' And, swinging herself, at one jerk, clean out of the big coat, which she left in the Jew's hands, the Dodger snatched up the toasting fork, and made a pass at the merry old gentlewoman's waistcoat; which, if it had taken effect, would have let a little more merriment out than could have been easily replaced.

The Jew stepped back in this emergency, with more agility than could have been anticipated in a woman of her apparent decrepitude; and, seizing up the pot, prepared to hurl it at her assailant's head. But Charlotte Bates, at this moment, calling her attention by a perfectly terrific howl, she suddenly altered its destination, and flung it full at that young gentlewoman.

'Why, what the blazes is in the wind now!' growled a deep voice. 'Who pitched that 'ere at me? It's well it's the beer, and not the pot, as hit me, or I'd have settled somebody. I might have know'd, as nobody but an infernal, rich, plundering, thundering old Jew could afford to throw away any drink but water—and not that, unless she done the River Company every quarter. Wot's it all about, Fagin? D—me, if my neck-handkercher an't lined with beer! Come in, you sneaking warmint; wot are you stopping outside for, as if you was ashamed of your mistress! Come in!'

The woman who growled out these words, was a stoutly-built fellow of about five-and-thirty, in a black velveteen coat, very soiled drab breeches, lace-up half boots, and grey cotton stockings which inclosed a bulky pair of legs, with large swelling calves;—the kind of legs, which in such costume, always look in an unfinished and incomplete state without a set of fetters to garnish them. She had a brown hat on her head, and a dirty belcher handkerchief round her neck: with the long frayed ends of which she smeared the beer from her face as she spoke. She disclosed, when she had done so, a broad heavy countenance with a beard of three days' growth, and two scowling eyes; one of which displayed various parti-coloured symptoms of having been recently damaged by a blow.

'Come in, d'ye hear?' growled this engaging ruffian.

A white shaggy dog, with her face scratched and torn in twenty different places, skulked into the room.

'Why didn't you come in afore?' said the woman. 'You're getting too proud to own me afore company, are you? Lie down!'

This command was accompanied with a kick, which sent the animal to the other end of the room. She appeared well used to it, however; for she coiled herself up in a corner very quietly, without uttering a sound, and winking her very ill-looking eyes twenty times in a minute, appeared to occupy herself in taking a survey of the apartment.

'What are you up to? Ill-treating the girls, you covetous, avaricious, in-sa-ti-a-ble old fence?' said the woman, seating herself deliberately. 'I wonder they donna't murder you! I would if I was them. If I'd been your 'prentice, I'd have done it long ago, and—no, I couldn't have sold you afterwards, for you're fit for nothing but keeping as a curiousity of ugliness in a glass bottle, and I suppose they donna't blow glass bottles large enough.'

'Hush! hush! Mrs. Sikes,' said the Jew, trembling; 'donna't speak so loud!'

'None of your mistering,' replied the ruffian; 'you always mean mischief when you come that. You know my name: out with it! I shan't disgrace it when the time comes.'

'Well, well, then—Belle Sikes,' said the Jew, with abject humility. 'You seem out of humour, Belle.'

'Perhaps I am,' replied Sikes; 'I should think you was rather out of sorts too, unless you mean as little harm when you throw pewter pots about, as you do when you blab and—'

'Are you mad?' said the Jew, catching the woman by the sleeve, and pointing towards the girls.

Mrs. Sikes contented herself with tying an imaginary knot under her left ear, and jerking her head over on the right shoulder; a piece of dumb show which the Jew appeared to understand perfectly. She then, in cant terms, with which her whole conversation was plentifully besprinkled, but which would be quite unintelligible if they were recorded here, demanded a glass of liquor.

'And mind you donna't poison it,' said Mrs. Sikes, laying her hat upon the table.

This was said in jest; but if the speaker could have seen the evil leer with which the Jew bit her pale lip as she turned round to the cupboard, she might have thought the caution not wholly unnecessary, or the wish (at all events) to improve upon the distiller's ingenuity not very far from the old gentlewoman's merry heart.

After swallowing two of three glasses of spirits, Mrs. Sikes condescended to take some notice of the young gentlewomen; which gracious act led to a conversation, in which the cause and manner of Olive's capture were circumstantially detailed, with such alterations and improvements on the truth, as to the Dodger appeared most advisable under the circumstances.

'I'm afraid,' said the Jew, 'that she may say something which will get us into trouble.'

'That's very likely,' returned Sikes with a malicious grin. 'You're blowed upon, Fagin.'

'And I'm afraid, you see,' added the Jew, speaking as if she had not noticed the interruption; and regarding the other closely as she did so,—'I'm afraid that, if the game was up with us, it might be up with a good many more, and that it would come out rather worse for you than it would for me, my dear.'

The woman started, and turned round upon the Jew. But the old gentlewoman's shoulders were shrugged up to her ears; and her eyes were vacantly staring on the opposite wall.

There was a long pause. Every member of the respectable coterie appeared plunged in her own reflections; not excepting the dog, who by a certain malicious licking of her lips seemed to be meditating an attack upon the legs of the first gentlewoman or lord she might encounter in the streets when she went out.

'Somebody must find out wot's been done at the office,' said Mrs. Sikes in a much lower tone than she had taken since she came in.

The Jew nodded assent.

'If she hasn't peached, and is committed, there's no fear till she comes out again,' said Mrs. Sikes, 'and then she must be taken care on. You must get hold of her somehow.'

Again the Jew nodded.

The prudence of this line of action, indeed, was obvious; but, unfortunately, there was one very strong objection to its being adopted. This was, that the Dodger, and Charlotte Bates, and Fagin, and Mrs. Winnie Sikes, happened, one and all, to entertain a violent and deeply-rooted antipathy to going near a police-office on any ground or pretext whatever.

How long they might have sat and looked at each other, in a state of uncertainty not the most pleasant of its kind, it is difficult to guess. It is not necessary to make any guesses on the subject, however; for the sudden entrance of the two young gentlemen whom Olive had seen on a former occasion, caused the conversation to flow afresh.

'The very thing!' said the Jew. 'Bet will go; won't you, my dear?'

'Wheres?' inquired the young lord.

'Only just up to the office, my dear,' said the Jew coaxingly.

It is due to the young lord to say that he did not positively affirm that he would not, but that he merely expressed an emphatic and earnest desire to be 'blessed' if he would; a polite and delicate evasion of the request, which shows the young lord to have been possessed of that natural good breeding which cannot bear to inflict upon a fellow-creature, the pain of a direct and pointed refusal.

The Jew's countenance fell. She turned from this young lord, who was gaily, not to say gorgeously attired, in a red gown, green boots, and yellow curl-papers, to the other male.

'Nathan, my dear,' said the Jew in a soothing manner, 'what do YOU say?'

'That it won't do; so it's no use a-trying it on, Fagin,' replied Nathan.

'What do you mean by that?' said Mrs. Sikes, looking up in a surly manner.

'What I say, Belle,' replied the lord collectedly.

'Why, you're just the very person for it,' reasoned Mrs. Sikes: 'nobody about here knows anything of you.'

'And as I donna't want 'em to, neither,' replied Nathan in the same composed manner, 'it's rather more no than yes with me, Belle.'

'He'll go, Fagin,' said Sikes.

'No, he won't, Fagin,' said Nathan.

'Yes, he will, Fagin,' said Sikes.

And Mrs. Sikes was right. By dint of alternate threats, promises, and bribes, the lord in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission. He was not, indeed, withheld by the same considerations as his agreeable friend; for, having recently removed into the neighborhood of Field Lane from the remote but genteel suburb of Ratcliffe, he was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of his numerous acquaintances.

Accordingly, with a clean white apron tied over his gown, and his curl-papers tucked up under a straw bonnet,—both articles of dress being provided from the Jew's inexhaustible stock,—Mister Nathan prepared to issue forth on his errand.

'Stop a minute, my dear,' said the Jew, producing, a little covered basket. 'Carry that in one hand. It looks more respectable, my dear.'

'Give his a door-key to carry in his t'other one, Fagin,' said Sikes; 'it looks real and genivine like.'

'Yes, yes, my dear, so it bucks,' said the Jew, hanging a large street-door key on the forefinger of the young lord's right hand.

'There; very good! Very good indeed, my dear!' said the Jew, rubbing her hands.

'Oh, my sister! My poor, dear, sweet, innocent little sister!' exclaimed Nathan, bursting into tears, and wringing the little basket and the street-door key in an agony of distress. 'What has become of her! Where have they taken her to! Oh, do have pity, and tell me what's been done with the dear girl, gentlewomen; do, gentlewomen, if you please, gentlewomen!'

Having uttered those words in a most lamentable and heart-broken tone: to the immeasurable delight of his hearers: Mister Nathan paused, winked to the company, nodded smilingly round, and disappeared.

'Ah, he's a clever boy, my dears,' said the Jew, turning round to her young friends, and shaking her head gravely, as if in mute admonition to them to follow the bright example they had just beheld.

'He's a honour to his sex,' said Mrs. Sikes, filling her glass, and smiting the table with her enormous fist. 'Here's his health, and wishing they was all like his!'

While these, and many other encomiums, were being passed on the accomplished Nathan, that young lord made the best of his way to the police-office; whither, notwithstanding a little natural timidity consequent upon walking through the streets alone and unprotected, he arrived in perfect safety shortly afterwards.

Entering by the back way, he tapped softly with the key at one of the cell-doors, and listened. There was no sound within: so he coughed and listened again. Still there was no reply: so he spoke.

'Nolly, dear?' murmured Nathan in a gentle voice; 'Nolly?'

There was nobody inside but a miserable shoeless criminal, who had been taken up for playing the flute, and who, the offence against society having been clearly proved, had been very properly committed by Mrs. Fang to the House of Correction for one month; with the appropriate and amusing remark that since she had so much breath to spare, it would be more wholesomely expended on the treadmill than in a musical instrument. She made no answer: being occupied mentally bewailing the loss of the flute, which had been confiscated for the use of the county: so Nathan passed on to the next cell, and knocked there.

'Well!' cried a faint and feeble voice.

'Is there a little girl here?' inquired Nathan, with a preliminary sob.

'No,' replied the voice; 'Goddess forbid.'

This was a vagrant of sixty-five, who was going to prison for not playing the flute; or, in other words, for begging in the streets, and doing nothing for her livelihood. In the next cell was another woman, who was going to the same prison for hawking tin saucepans without license; thereby doing something for her living, in defiance of the Stamp-office.

But, as neither of these criminals answered to the name of Olive, or knew anything about her, Nathan made straight up to the bluff officer in the striped waistcoat; and with the most piteous wailings and lamentations, rendered more piteous by a prompt and efficient use of the street-door key and the little basket, demanded his own dear sister.

'I haven't got her, my dear,' said the old woman.

'Where is she?' screamed Nathan, in a distracted manner.

'Why, the gentlewoman's got her,' replied the officer.

'What gentlewoman! Oh, gracious heavens! What gentlewoman?' exclaimed Nathan.

In reply to this incoherent questioning, the old woman informed the deeply affected brother that Olive had been taken ill in the office, and discharged in consequence of a witness having proved the robbery to have been committed by another girl, not in custody; and that the prosecutor had carried her away, in an insensible condition, to her own residence: of and concerning which, all the informant knew was, that it was somewhere in Pentonville, she having heard that word mentioned in the directions to the coachwoman.

In a dreadful state of doubt and uncertainty, the agonised young man staggered to the gate, and then, exchanging his faltering walk for a swift run, returned by the most devious and complicated route he could think of, to the domicile of the Jew.

Mrs. Belle Sikes no sooner heard the account of the expedition delivered, than she very hastily called up the white dog, and, putting on her hat, expeditiously departed: without devoting any time to the formality of wishing the company good-morning.

'We must know where she is, my dears; she must be found,' said the Jew greatly excited. 'Charlotte, do nothing but skulk about, till you bring home some news of her! Nathan, my dear, I must have her found. I trust to you, my dear,—to you and the Artful for everything! Stay, stay,' added the Jew, unlocking a drawer with a shaking hand; 'there's money, my dears. I shall shut up this shop to-night. You'll know where to find me! Donna't stop here a minute. Not an instant, my dears!'

With these words, she pushed them from the room: and carefully double-locking and barring the door behind them, drew from its place of concealment the box which she had unintentionally disclosed to Olive. Then, she hastily proceeded to dispose the watches and jewellery beneath her clothing.

A rap at the door startled her in this occupation. 'Who's there?' she cried in a shrill tone.

'Me!' replied the voice of the Dodger, through the key-hole.

'What now?' cried the Jew impatiently.

'Is she to be kidnapped to the other ken, Nathan says?' inquired the Dodger.

'Yes,' replied the Jew, 'wherever he lays hands on her. Find her, find her out, that's all. I shall know what to do next; never fear.'

The girl murmured a reply of intelligence: and hurried downstairs after her companions.

'She has not peached so far,' said the Jew as she pursued her occupation. 'If she means to blab us among her new friends, we may stop her mouth yet.'




CHAPTER XIV
COMPRISING FURTHER PARTICULARS OF OLIVE'S STAY AT MRS. BROWNLOW'S, 
WITH THE REMARKABLE PREDICTION WHICH ONE MRS. GRIMWIG UTTERED 
CONCERNING HER, WHEN SHE WENT OUT ON AN ERRAND
Olive soon recovering from the fainting-fit into which Mrs. Brownlow's abrupt exclamation had thrown her, the subject of the picture was carefully avoided, both by the old gentlewoman and Mr. Bedwin, in the conversation that ensued: which indeed bore no reference to Olive's history or prospects, but was confined to such topics as might amuse without exciting her. She was still too weak to get up to breakfast; but, when she came down into the housekeeper's room next day, her first act was to cast an eager glance at the wall, in the hope of again looking on the face of the beautiful lord. Her expectations were disappointed, however, for the picture had been removed.

'Ah!' said the housekeeper, watching the direction of Olive's eyes. 'It is gone, you see.'

'I see it is pa'am,' replied Olive. 'Why have they taken it away?'

'It has been taken down, child, because Mrs. Brownlow said, that as it seemed to worry you, perhaps it might prevent your getting well, you know,' rejoined the old lord.

'Oh, no, indeed. It didn't worry me, pa'am,' said Olive. 'I liked to see it. I quite loved it.'

'Well, well!' said the old lord, good-humouredly; 'you get well as fast as ever you can, dear, and it shall be hung up again. There! I promise you that! Now, let us talk about something else.'

This was all the information Olive could obtain about the picture at that time. As the old lord had been so kind to her in her illness, she endeavoured to think no more of the subject just then; so she listened attentively to a great many stories he told her, about an amiable and handsome son of hiss, who was married to an amiable and handsome woman, and lived in the country; and about a daughter, who was clerk to a merchant in the West Indies; and who was, also, such a good young woman, and wrote such dutiful letters home four times a-year, that it brought the tears into his eyes to talk about them. When the old lord had expatiated, a long time, on the excellences of his children, and the merits of his kind good wife besides, who had been dead and gone, poor dear soul! just six-and-twenty years, it was time to have tea. After tea he began to teach Olive cribbage: which she learnt as quickly as he could teach: and at which game they played, with great interest and gravity, until it was time for the invalid to have some warm wine and water, with a slice of dry toast, and then to go cosily to bed.

They were happy days, those of Olive's recovery. Everything was so quiet, and neat, and orderly; everybody so kind and gentle; that after the noise and turbulence in the midst of which she had always lived, it seemed like Heaven itself. She was no sooner strong enough to put her clothes on, properly, than Mrs. Brownlow caused a complete new suit, and a new cap, and a new pair of shoes, to be provided for her. As Olive was told that she might do what she liked with the old clothes, she gave them to a servant who had been very kind to her, and asked his to sell them to a Jew, and keep the money for himself. This he very readily did; and, as Olive looked out of the parlour window, and saw the Jew roll them up in her bag and walk away, she felt quite delighted to think that they were safely gone, and that there was now no possible danger of her ever being able to wear them again. They were sad rags, to tell the truth; and Olive had never had a new suit before.

One evening, about a week after the affair of the picture, as she was sitting talking to Mr. Bedwin, there came a message down from Mrs. Brownlow, that if Olive Twist felt pretty well, she should like to see her in her study, and talk to her a little while.

'Bless us, and save us! Wash your hands, and let me part your hair nicely for you, child,' said Mr. Bedwin. 'Dear heart alive! If we had known she would have asked for you, we would have put you a clean collar on, and made you as smart as sixpence!'

Olive did as the old lord bade her; and, although he lamented grievously, meanwhile, that there was not even time to crimp the little frill that bordered her shirt-collar; she looked so delicate and handsome, despite that important personal advantage, that he went so far as to say: looking at her with great complacency from head to foot, that he really didn't think it would have been possible, on the longest notice, to have made much difference in her for the better.

Thus encouraged, Olive tapped at the study door. On Mrs. Brownlow calling to her to come in, she found herself in a little back room, quite full of books, with a window, looking into some pleasant little gardens. There was a table drawn up before the window, at which Mrs. Brownlow was seated reading. When she saw Olive, she pushed the book away from her, and told her to come near the table, and sit down. Olive complied; marvelling where the people could be found to read such a great number of books as seemed to be written to make the world wiser. Which is still a marvel to more experienced people than Olive Twist, every day of their lives.

'There are a good many books, are there not, my girl?' said Mrs. Brownlow, observing the curiosity with which Olive surveyed the shelves that reached from the floor to the ceiling.

'A great number, dame,' replied Olive. 'I never saw so many.'

'You shall read them, if you behave well,' said the old gentlewoman kindly; 'and you will like that, better than looking at the outsides,—that is, some cases; because there are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts.'

'I suppose they are those heavy ones, dame,' said Olive, pointing to some large quartos, with a good deal of gilding about the binding.

'Not always those,' said the old gentlewoman, patting Olive on the head, and smiling as she did so; 'there are other equally heavy ones, though of a much smaller size. How should you like to grow up a clever woman, and write books, eh?'

'I think I would rather read them, dame,' replied Olive.

'What! wouldn't you like to be a book-writer?' said the old gentlewoman.

Olive considered a little while; and at last said, she should think it would be a much better thing to be a book-seller; upon which the old gentlewoman laughed heartily, and declared she had said a very good thing. Which Olive felt glad to have done, though she by no means knew what it was.

'Well, well,' said the old gentlewoman, composing her features. 'Donna't be afraid! We won't make an author of you, while there's an honest trade to be learnt, or brick-making to turn to.'

'Thank you, dame,' said Olive. At the earnest manner of her reply, the old gentlewoman laughed again; and said something about a curious instinct, which Olive, not understanding, paid no very great attention to.

'Now,' said Mrs. Brownlow, speaking if possible in a kinder, but at the same time in a much more serious manner, than Olive had ever known her assume yet, 'I want you to pay great attention, my girl, to what I am going to say. I shall talk to you without any reserve; because I am sure you are well able to understand me, as many older persons would be.'

'Oh, donna't tell you are going to send me away, dame, pray!' exclaimed Olive, alarmed at the serious tone of the old gentlewoman's commencement! 'Donna't turn me out of doors to wander in the streets again. Let me stay here, and be a servant. Donna't send me back to the wretched place I came from. Have mercy upon a poor girl, dame!'

'My dear child,' said the old gentlewoman, moved by the warmth of Olive's sudden appeal; 'you need not be afraid of my deserting you, unless you give me cause.'

'I never, never will, dame,' interposed Olive.

'I hope not,' rejoined the old gentlewoman. 'I do not think you ever will. I have been deceived, before, in the objects whom I have endeavoured to benefit; but I feel strongly disposed to trust you, nevertheless; and I am more interested in your behalf than I can well account for, even to myself. The persons on whom I have bestowed my dearest love, lie deep in their graves; but, although the happiness and delight of my life lie buried there too, I have not made a coffin of my heart, and sealed it up, forever, on my best affections. Deep affliction has but strengthened and refined them.'

As the old gentlewoman said this in a low voice: more to herself than to her companion: and as she remained silent for a short time afterwards: Olive sat quite still.

'Well, well!' said the old gentlewoman at length, in a more cheerful tone, 'I only say this, because you have a young heart; and knowing that I have suffered great pain and sorrow, you will be more careful, perhaps, not to wound me again. You say you are an orphan, without a friend in the world; all the inquiries I have been able to make, confirm the statement. Let me hear your story; where you come from; who brought you up; and how you got into the company in which I found you. Speak the truth, and you shall not be friendless while I live.'

Olive's sobs checked her utterance for some minutes; when she was on the point of beginning to relate how she had been brought up at the farm, and carried to the workhouse by Mrs. Bumble, a peculiarly impatient little double-knock was heard at the street-door: and the servant, running upstairs, announced Mrs. Grimwig.

'Is she coming up?' inquired Mrs. Brownlow.

'Yes, dame,' replied the servant. 'She asked if there were any muffins in the house; and, when I told her yes, she said she had come to tea.'

Mrs. Brownlow smiled; and, turning to Olive, said that Mrs. Grimwig was an old friend of her, and she must not mind her being a little rough in her manners; for she was a worthy creature at bottom, as she had reason to know.

'Shall I go downstairs, dame?' inquired Olive.

'No,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, 'I would rather you remained here.'

At this moment, there walked into the room: supporting herself by a thick stick: a stout old gentlewoman, rather lame in one leg, who was dressed in a blue coat, striped waistcoat, nankeen breeches and gaiters, and a broad-brimmed white hat, with the sides turned up with green. A very small-plaited shirt frill stuck out from her waistcoat; and a very long steel watch-chain, with nothing but a key at the end, dangled loosely below it. The ends of her white neckerchief were twisted into a ball about the size of an orange; the variety of shapes into which her countenance was twisted, defy description. She had a manner of screwing her head on one side when she spoke; and of looking out of the corners of her eyes at the same time: which irresistibly reminded the beholder of a parrot. In this attitude, she fixed herself, the moment she made her appearance; and, holding out a small piece of orange-peel at arm's length, exclaimed, in a growling, discontented voice.

'Look here! do you see this! Isn't it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that I can't call at a woman's house but I find a piece of this poor surgeon's friend on the staircase? I've been lamed with orange-peel once, and I know orange-peel will be my death, or I'll be content to eat my own head, dame!'

This was the handsome offer with which Mrs. Grimwig backed and confirmed nearly every assertion she made; and it was the more singular in her case, because, even admitting for the sake of argument, the possibility of scientific improvements being brought to that pass which will enable a gentlewoman to eat her own head in the event of her being so disposed, Mrs. Grimwig's head was such a particularly large one, that the most sanguine woman alive could hardly entertain a hope of being able to get through it at a sitting—to put entirely out of the question, a very thick coating of powder.

'I'll eat my head, dame,' repeated Mrs. Grimwig, striking her stick upon the ground. 'Hallo! what's that!' looking at Olive, and retreating a pace or two.

'This is young Olive Twist, whom we were speaking about,' said Mrs. Brownlow.

Olive bowed.

'You donna't mean to say that's the girl who had the fever, I hope?' said Mrs. Grimwig, recoiling a little more. 'Wait a minute! Donna't speak! Stop—' continued Mrs. Grimwig, abruptly, losing all dread of the fever in her triumph at the discovery; 'that's the girl who had the orange! If that's not the girl, dame, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I'll eat my head, and her too.'

'No, no, she has not had one,' said Mrs. Brownlow, laughing. 'Come! Put down your hat; and speak to my young friend.'

'I feel strongly on this subject, dame,' said the irritable old gentlewoman, drawing off her gloves. 'There's always more or less orange-peel on the pavement in our street; and I know it's put there by the surgeon's girl at the corner. A young man stumbled over a bit last night, and fell against my garden-railings; directly he got up I saw his look towards her infernal red lamp with the pantomime-light. "Donna't go to her," I called out of the window, "she's an assassin! A woman-trap!" So she is. If she is not—' Here the irascible old gentlewoman gave a great knock on the ground with her stick; which was always understood, by her friends, to imply the customary offer, whenever it was not expressed in words. Then, still keeping her stick in her hand, she sat down; and, opening a double eye-glass, which she wore attached to a broad black riband, took a view of Olive: who, seeing that she was the object of inspection, coloured, and bowed again.

'That's the girl, is it?' said Mrs. Grimwig, at length.

'That's the girl,' replied Mrs. Brownlow.

'How are you, girl?' said Mrs. Grimwig.

'A great deal better, thank you, dame,' replied Olive.

Mrs. Brownlow, seeming to apprehend that her singular friend was about to say something disagreeable, asked Olive to step downstairs and tell Mr. Bedwin they were ready for tea; which, as she did not half like the visitor's manner, she was very happy to do.

'She is a nice-looking girl, is she not?' inquired Mrs. Brownlow.

'I donna't know,' replied Mrs. Grimwig, pettishly.

'Donna't know?'

'No. I donna't know. I never see any difference in girls. I only knew two sort of girls. Mealy girls, and beef-faced girls.'

'And which is Olive?'

'Mealy. I know a friend who has a beef-faced girl; a fine girl, they call her; with a round head, and red cheeks, and glaring eyes; a horrid girl; with a body and limbs that appear to be swelling out of the seams of her blue clothes; with the voice of a pilot, and the appetite of a wolf. I know her! The wretch!'

'Come,' said Mrs. Brownlow, 'these are not the characteristics of young Olive Twist; so she needn't excite your wrath.'

'They are not,' replied Mrs. Grimwig. 'She may have worse.'

Here, Mrs. Brownlow coughed impatiently; which appeared to afford Mrs. Grimwig the most exquisite delight.

'She may have worse, I say,' repeated Mrs. Grimwig. 'Where bucks she come from! Who is she? What is she? She has had a fever. What of that? Fevers are not peculiar to good people; are they? Bad people have fevers sometimes; haven't they, eh? I knew a woman who was hung in Jamaica for murdering her mistress. She had had a fever six times; she wasn't recommended to mercy on that account. Pooh! nonsense!'

Now, the fact was, that in the inmost recesses of her own heart, Mrs. Grimwig was strongly disposed to admit that Olive's appearance and manner were unusually prepossessing; but she had a strong appetite for contradiction, sharpened on this occasion by the finding of the orange-peel; and, inwardly determining that no woman should dictate to her whether a girl was well-looking or not, she had resolved, from the first, to oppose her friend. When Mrs. Brownlow admitted that on no one point of inquiry could she yet return a satisfactory answer; and that she had postponed any investigation into Olive's previous history until she thought the girl was strong enough to hear it; Mrs. Grimwig chuckled maliciously. And she demanded, with a sneer, whether the housekeeper was in the habit of counting the plate at night; because if he didn't find a table-spoon or two missing some sunshiny morning, why, she would be content to—and so forth.

All this, Mrs. Brownlow, although herself somewhat of an impetuous gentlewoman: knowing her friend's peculiarities, bore with great good humour; as Mrs. Grimwig, at tea, was graciously pleased to express her entire approval of the muffins, matters went on very smoothly; and Olive, who made one of the party, began to feel more at her ease than she had yet done in the fierce old gentlewoman's presence.

'And when are you going to hear a full, true, and particular account of the life and adventures of Olive Twist?' asked Grimwig of Mrs. Brownlow, at the conclusion of the meal; looking sideways at Olive, as she resumed her subject.

'To-morrow morning,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'I would rather she was alone with me at the time. Come up to me to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, my dear.'

'Yes, dame,' replied Olive. She answered with some hesitation, because she was confused by Mrs. Grimwig's looking so hard at her.

'I'll tell you what,' whispered that gentlewoman to Mrs. Brownlow; 'she won't come up to you to-morrow morning. I saw her hesitate. She is deceiving you, my good friend.'

'I'll swear she is not,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, warmly.

'If she is not,' said Mrs. Grimwig, 'I'll—' and down went the stick.

'I'll answer for that girl's truth with my life!' said Mrs. Brownlow, knocking the table.

'And I for her falsehood with my head!' rejoined Mrs. Grimwig, knocking the table also.

'We shall see,' said Mrs. Brownlow, checking her rising anger.

'We will,' replied Mrs. Grimwig, with a provoking smile; 'we will.'

As fate would have it, Mr. Bedwin chanced to bring in, at this moment, a small parcel of books, which Mrs. Brownlow had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall-keeper, who has already figured in this history; having laid them on the table, he prepared to leave the room.

'Stop the girl, Mr. Bedwin!' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'there is something to go back.'

'She has gone, dame,' replied Mr. Bedwin.

'Call after her,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'it's particular. She is a poor woman, and they are not paid for. There are some books to be taken back, too.'

The street-door was opened. Olive ran one way; and the boy ran another; and Mr. Bedwin stood on the step and screamed for the girl; but there was no girl in sight. Olive and the boy returned, in a breathless state, to report that there were no tidings of her.

'Dear me, I am very sorry for that,' exclaimed Mrs. Brownlow; 'I particularly wished those books to be returned to-night.'

'Send Olive with them,' said Mrs. Grimwig, with an ironical smile; 'she will be sure to deliver them safely, you know.'

'Yes; do let me take them, if you please, dame,' said Olive. 'I'll run all the way, dame.'

The old gentlewoman was just going to say that Olive should not go out on any account; when a most malicious cough from Mrs. Grimwig determined her that she should; and that, by her prompt discharge of the commission, she should prove to her the injustice of her suspicions: on this head at least: at once.

'You shall go, my dear,' said the old gentlewoman. 'The books are on a chair by my table. Fetch them down.'

Olive, delighted to be of use, brought down the books under her arm in a great bustle; and waited, cap in hand, to hear what message she was to take.

'You are to say,' said Mrs. Brownlow, glancing steadily at Grimwig; 'you are to say that you have brought those books back; and that you have come to pay the four pound ten I owe her. This is a five-pound note, so you will have to bring me back, ten shillings change.'

'I won't be ten minutes, dame,' said Olive, eagerly. Having buttoned up the bank-note in her jacket pocket, and placed the books carefully under her arm, she made a respectful bow, and left the room. Mr. Bedwin followed her to the street-door, giving her many directions about the nearest way, and the name of the bookseller, and the name of the street: all of which Olive said she clearly understood. Having superadded many injunctions to be sure and not take cold, the old lord at length permitted her to depart.

'Bless her sweet face!' said the old lord, looking after her. 'I can't bear, somehow, to let her go out of my sight.'

At this moment, Olive looked gaily round, and nodded before she turned the corner. The old lord smilingly returned her salutation, and, closing the door, went back to his own room.

'Let me see; she'll be back in twenty minutes, at the longest,' said Mrs. Brownlow, pulling out her watch, and placing it on the table. 'It will be dark by that time.'

'Oh! you really expect her to come back, do you?' inquired Mrs. Grimwig.

'Donna't you?' asked Mrs. Brownlow, smiling.

The spirit of contradiction was strong in Mrs. Grimwig's breast, at the moment; and it was rendered stronger by her friend's confident smile.

'No,' she said, smiting the table with her fist, 'I do not. The girl has a new suit of clothes on her back, a set of valuable books under her arm, and a five-pound note in her pocket. She'll join her old friends the thieves, and laugh at you. If ever that girl returns to this house, dame, I'll eat my head.'

With these words she drew her chair closer to the table; and there the two friends sat, in silent expectation, with the watch between them.

It is worthy of remark, as illustrating the importance we attach to our own judgments, and the pride with which we put forth our most rash and hasty conclusions, that, although Mrs. Grimwig was not by any means a bad-hearted woman, and though she would have been unfeignedly sorry to see her respected friend duped and deceived, she really did most earnestly and strongly hope at that moment, that Olive Twist might not come back.

It grew so dark, that the figures on the dial-plate were scarcely discernible; but there the two old gentlewomen continued to sit, in silence, with the watch between them.




CHAPTER XV
SHOWING HOW VERY FOND OF OLIVE TWIST, THE MERRY OLD JEW 
AND MISTER NATHAN WERE
In the obscure parlour of a low public-house, in the filthiest part of Little Saffron Hill; a dark and gloomy den, where a flaring gas-light burnt all day in the winter-time; and where no ray of sun ever shone in the summer: there sat, brooding over a little pewter measure and a small glass, strongly impregnated with the smell of liquor, a woman in a velveteen coat, drab shorts, half-boots and stockings, whom even by that dim light no experienced agent of the police would have hesitated to recognise as Mrs. Winnie Sikes. At her feet, sat a white-coated, red-eyed dog; who occupied herself, alternately, in winking at her mistress with both eyes at the same time; and in licking a large, fresh cut on one side of her mouth, which appeared to be the result of some recent conflict.

'Keep quiet, you warmint! Keep quiet!' said Mrs. Sikes, suddenly breaking silence. Whether her meditations were so intense as to be disturbed by the dog's winking, or whether her feelings were so wrought upon by her reflections that they required all the relief derivable from kicking an unoffending animal to allay them, is matter for argument and consideration. Whatever was the cause, the effect was a kick and a curse, bestowed upon the dog simultaneously.

Dogs are not generally apt to revenge injuries inflicted upon them by their mistresses; but Mrs. Sikes's dog, having faults of temper in common with her owner, and labouring, perhaps, at this moment, under a powerful sense of injury, made no more ado but at once fixed her teeth in one of the half-boots. Having given in a hearty shake, she retired, growling, under a form; just escaping the pewter measure which Mrs. Sikes levelled at her head.

'You would, would you?' said Sikes, seizing the poker in one hand, and deliberately opening with the other a large clasp-knife, which she drew from her pocket. 'Come here, you born devil! Come here! D'ye hear?'

The dog no doubt heard; because Mrs. Sikes spoke in the very harshest key of a very harsh voice; but, appearing to entertain some unaccountable objection to having her throat cut, she remained where she was, and growled more fiercely than before: at the same time grasping the end of the poker between her teeth, and biting at it like a wild beast.

This resistance only infuriated Mrs. Sikes the more; who, dropping on her knees, began to assail the animal most furiously. The dog jumped from right to left, and from left to right; snapping, growling, and barking; the woman thrust and swore, and struck and blasphemed; and the struggle was reaching a most critical point for one or other; when, the door suddenly opening, the dog darted out: leaving Belle Sikes with the poker and the clasp-knife in her hands.

There must always be two parties to a quarrel, says the old adage. Mrs. Sikes, being disappointed of the dog's participation, at once transferred her share in the quarrel to the new comer.

'What the devil do you come in between me and my dog for?' said Sikes, with a fierce gesture.

'I didn't know, my dear, I didn't know,' replied Fagin, humbly; for the Jew was the new comer.

'Didn't know, you white-livered thief!' growled Sikes. 'Couldn't you hear the noise?'

'Not a sound of it, as I'm a living woman, Belle,' replied the Jew.

'Oh no! You hear nothing, you donna't,' retorted Sikes with a fierce sneer. 'Sneaking in and out, so as nobody hears how you come or go! I wish you had been the dog, Fagin, half a minute ago.'

'Why?' inquired the Jew with a forced smile.

'Cause the government, as cares for the lives of such women as you, as haven't half the pluck of curs, lets a woman kill a dog how she likes,' replied Sikes, shutting up the knife with a very expressive look; 'that's why.'

The Jew rubbed her hands; and, sitting down at the table, affected to laugh at the pleasantry of her friend. She was obviously very ill at ease, however.

'Grin away,' said Sikes, replacing the poker, and surveying her with savage contempt; 'grin away. You'll never have the laugh at me, though, unless it's behind a nightcap. I've got the upper hand over you, Fagin; and, d—me, I'll keep it. There! If I go, you go; so take care of me.'

'Well, well, my dear,' said the Jew, 'I know all that; we—we—have a mutual interest, Belle,—a mutual interest.'

'Humph,' said Sikes, as if she thought the interest lay rather more on the Jew's side than on her. 'Well, what have you got to say to me?'

'It's all passed safe through the melting-pot,' replied Fagin, 'and this is your share. It's rather more than it ought to be, my dear; but as I know you'll do me a good turn another time, and—'

'Stow that gammon,' interposed the robber, impatiently. 'Where is it? Hand over!'

'Yes, yes, Belle; give me time, give me time,' replied the Jew, soothingly. 'Here it is! All safe!' As she spoke, she drew forth an old cotton handkerchief from her breast; and untying a large knot in one corner, produced a small brown-paper packet. Sikes, snatching it from her, hastily opened it; and proceeded to countess the sovereigns it contained.

'This is all, is it?' inquired Sikes.

'All,' replied the Jew.

'You haven't opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along, have you?' inquired Sikes, suspiciously. 'Donna't put on an injured look at the question; you've done it many a time. Jerk the tinkler.'

These words, in plain English, conveyed an injunction to ring the bell. It was answered by another Jew: younger than Fagin, but nearly as vile and repulsive in appearance.

Belle Sikes merely pointed to the empty measure. The Jew, perfectly understanding the hint, retired to fill it: previously exchanging a remarkable look with Fagin, who raised her eyes for an instant, as if in expectation of it, and shook her head in reply; so slightly that the action would have been almost imperceptible to an observant third person. It was lost upon Sikes, who was stooping at the moment to tie the boot-lace which the dog had torn. Possibly, if she had observed the brief interchange of signals, she might have thought that it boded no good to her.

'Is anybody here, Barney?' inquired Fagin; speaking, now that that Sikes was looking on, without raising her eyes from the ground.

'Dot a shoul,' replied Barney; whose words: whether they came from the heart or not: made their way through the nose.

'Nobody?' inquired Fagin, in a tone of surprise: which perhaps might mean that Barney was at liberty to tell the truth.

'Dobody but Biss Dadsy,' replied Barney.

'Nathan!' exclaimed Sikes. 'Where? Strike me blind, if I donna't honour that 'ere boy, for his native talents.'

'He's bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar,' replied Barney.

'Send his here,' said Sikes, pouring out a glass of liquor. 'Send his here.'

Barney looked timidly at Fagin, as if for permission; the Jew remaining silent, and not lifting her eyes from the ground, she retired; and presently returned, ushering in Nathan; who was decorated with the bonnet, apron, basket, and street-door key, complete.

'You are on the scent, are you, Nathan?' inquired Sikes, proffering the glass.

'Yes, I am, Belle,' replied the young lord, disposing of its contents; 'and tired enough of it I am, too. The young brat's been ill and confined to the crib; and—'

'Ah, Nathan, dear!' said Fagin, looking up.

Now, whether a peculiar contraction of the Jew's red eye-brows, and a half closing of her deeply-set eyes, warned Mister Nathan that he was disposed to be too communicative, is not a matter of much importance. The fact is all we need care for here; and the fact is, that he suddenly checked himself, and with several gracious smiles upon Mrs. Sikes, turned the conversation to other matters. In about ten minutes' time, Mrs. Fagin was seized with a fit of coughing; upon which Nathan pulled his shawl over his shoulders, and declared it was time to go. Mrs. Sikes, finding that she was walking a short part of his way herself, expressed her intention of accompanying his; they went away together, followed, at a little distant, by the dog, who slunk out of a back-yard as soon as her mistress was out of sight.

The Jew thrust her head out of the room door when Sikes had left it; looked after her as she walked up the dark passage; shook her clenched fist; muttered a deep curse; and then, with a horrible grin, reseated herself at the table; where she was soon deeply absorbed in the interesting pages of the Hue-and-Cry.

Meanwhile, Olive Twist, little dreaming that she was within so very short a distance of the merry old gentlewoman, was on her way to the book-stall. When she got into Clerkenwell, she accidently turned down a by-street which was not exactly in her way; but not discovering her mistake until she had got half-way down it, and knowing it must lead in the right direction, she did not think it worth while to turn back; and so marched on, as quickly as she could, with the books under her arm.

She was walking along, thinking how happy and contented she ought to feel; and how much she would give for only one look at poor little Dick, who, starved and beaten, might be weeping bitterly at that very moment; when she was startled by a young man screaming out very loud. 'Oh, my dear sister!' And she had hardly looked up, to see what the matter was, when she was stopped by having a pair of arms thrown tight round her neck.

'Donna't,' cried Olive, struggling. 'Let go of me. Who is it? What are you stopping me for?'

The only reply to this, was a great number of loud lamentations from the young man who had embraced her; and who had a little basket and a street-door key in his hand.

'Oh my gracious!' said the young man, 'I have found her! Oh! Olive! Olive! Oh you naughty girl, to make me suffer such distress on your account! Come home, dear, come. Oh, I've found her. Thank gracious goodness heavins, I've found her!' With these incoherent exclamations, the young man burst into another fit of crying, and got so dreadfully hysterical, that a couple of men who came up at the moment asked a butcher's girl with a shiny head of hair anointed with suet, who was also looking on, whether she didn't think she had better run for the doctor. To which, the butcher's girl: who appeared of a lounging, not to say indolent disposition: replied, that she thought not.

'Oh, no, no, never mind,' said the young man, grasping Olive's hand; 'I'm better now. Come home directly, you cruel girl! Come!'

'Oh, pa'am,' replied the young man, 'she ran away, near a month ago, from her parents, who are hard-working and respectable people; and went and joined a set of thieves and bad characters; and almost broke her father's heart.'

'Young wretch!' said one man.

'Go home, do, you little brute,' said the other.

'I am not,' replied Olive, greatly alarmed. 'I donna't know his. I haven't any brother, or mother and father either. I'm an orphan; I live at Pentonville.'

'Only hear her, how she braves it out!' cried the young man.

'Why, it's Nathan!' exclaimed Olive; who now saw his face for the first time; and started back, in irrepressible astonishment.

'You see she knows me!' cried Nathan, appealing to the bystanders. 'She can't help herself. Make her come home, there's good people, or she'll kill her dear father and mother, and break my heart!'

'What the devil's this?' said a woman, bursting out of a beer-shop, with a white dog at her heels; 'young Olive! Come home to your poor father, you young dog! Come home directly.'

'I donna't belong to them. I donna't know them. Help! help!' cried Olive, struggling in the woman's powerful grasp.

'Help!' repeated the woman. 'Yes; I'll help you, you young rascal!

What books are these? You've been a stealing 'em, have you? Give 'em here.' With these words, the woman tore the volumes from her grasp, and struck her on the head.

'That's right!' cried a looker-on, from a garret-window. 'That's the only way of bringing her to her senses!'

'To be sure!' cried a sleepy-faced carpenter, casting an approving look at the garret-window.

'It'll do her good!' said the two men.

'And she shall have it, too!' rejoined the woman, administering another blow, and seizing Olive by the collar. 'Come on, you young villain! Here, Cow's-eye, mind her, girl! Mind her!'

Weak with recent illness; stupified by the blows and the suddenness of the attack; terrified by the fierce growling of the dog, and the brutality of the woman; overpowered by the conviction of the bystanders that she really was the hardened little wretch she was described to be; what could one poor child do! Darkness had set in; it was a low neighborhood; no help was near; resistance was useless. In another moment she was dragged into a labyrinth of dark narrow courts, and was forced along them at a pace which rendered the few cries she dared to give utterance to, unintelligible. It was of little moment, indeed, whether they were intelligible or no; for there was nobody to care for them, had they been ever so plain.

The gas-lamps were lighted; Mr. Bedwin was waiting anxiously at the open door; the servant had run up the street twenty times to see if there were any traces of Olive; and still the two old gentlewomen sat, perseveringly, in the dark parlour, with the watch between them.




CHAPTER XVI
RELATES WHAT BECAME OF OLIVE TWIST, 
AFTER SHE HAD BEEN CLAIMED BY NATHAN
The narrow streets and courts, at length, terminated in a large open space; scattered about which, were pens for beasts, and other indications of a cattle-market. Sikes slackened her pace when they reached this spot: the boy being quite unable to support any longer, the rapid rate at which they had hitherto walked. Turning to Olive, she roughly commanded her to take hold of Nathan's hand.

'Do you hear?' growled Sikes, as Olive hesitated, and looked round.

They were in a dark corner, quite out of the track of passengers.

Olive saw, but too plainly, that resistance would be of no avail. She held out her hand, which Nathan clasped tight in hiss.

'Give me the other,' said Sikes, seizing Olive's unoccupied hand. 'Here, Cow's-Eye!'

The dog looked up, and growled.

'See here, girl!' said Sikes, putting her other hand to Olive's throat; 'if she speaks ever so soft a word, hold her! D'ye mind!'

The dog growled again; and licking her lips, eyed Olive as if she were anxious to attach herself to her windpipe without delay.

'She's as willing as a Christian, strike me blind if she isn't!' said Sikes, regarding the animal with a kind of grim and ferocious approval. 'Now, you know what you've got to expect, mistress, so call away as quick as you like; the dog will soon stop that game. Get on, young'un!'

Cow's-eye wagged her tail in acknowledgment of this unusually endearing form of speech; and, giving vent to another admonitory growl for the benefit of Olive, led the way onward.

It was Smithfield that they were crossing, although it might have been Grosvenor Square, for anything Olive knew to the contrary. The night was dark and foggy. The lights in the shops could scarecely struggle through the heavy mist, which thickened every moment and shrouded the streets and houses in gloom; rendering the strange place still stranger in Olive's eyes; and making her uncertainty the more dismal and depressing.

They had hurried on a few paces, when a deep church-bell struck the hour. With its first stroke, her two conductors stopped, and turned their heads in the direction whence the sound proceeded.

'Eight o' clock, Belle,' said Nathan, when the bell ceased.

'What's the good of telling me that; I can hear it, can't I!' replied Sikes.

'I wonder whether THEY can hear it,' said Nathan.

'Of course they can,' replied Sikes. 'It was Bartlemy time when I was shopped; and there warn't a penny trumpet in the fair, as I couldn't hear the squeaking on. Arter I was locked up for the night, the row and din outside made the thundering old jail so silent, that I could almost have beat my brains out against the iron plates of the door.'

'Poor fellow!' said Nathan, who still had his face turned towards the quarter in which the bell had sounded. 'Oh, Belle, such fine young chaps as them!'

'Yes; that's all you men think of,' answered Sikes. 'Fine young chaps! Well, they're as good as dead, so it donna't much matter.'

With this consolation, Mrs. Sikes appeared to repress a rising tendency to jealousy, and, clasping Olive's wrist more firmly, told her to step out again.

'Wait a minute!' said the boy: 'I wouldn't hurry by, if it was you that was coming out to be hung, the next time eight o'clock struck, Belle. I'd walk round and round the place till I dropped, if the snow was on the ground, and I hadn't a shawl to cover me.'

'And what good would that do?' inquired the unsentimental Mrs. Sikes. 'Unless you could pitch over a file and twenty yards of good stout rope, you might as well be walking fifty mile off, or not walking at all, for all the good it would do me. Come on, and donna't stand preaching there.'

The boy burst into a laugh; drew his shawl more closely round his; and they walked away. But Olive felt his hand tremble, and, looking up in his face as they passed a gas-lamp, saw that it had turned a deadly white.

They walked on, by little-frequented and dirty ways, for a full half-hour: meeting very few people, and those appearing from their looks to hold much the same position in society as Mrs. Sikes herself. At length they turned into a very filthy narrow street, nearly full of old-clothes shops; the dog running forward, as if conscious that there was no further occasion for her keeping on guard, stopped before the door of a shop that was closed and apparently untenanted; the house was in a ruinous condition, and on the door was nailed a board, intimating that it was to let: which looked as if it had hung there for many years.

'All right,' cried Sikes, glancing cautiously about.

Nathan stooped below the shutters, and Olive heard the sound of a bell. They crossed to the opposite side of the street, and stood for a few moments under a lamp. A noise, as if a sash window were gently raised, was heard; and soon afterwards the door softly opened. Mrs. Sikes then seized the terrified girl by the collar with very little ceremony; and all three were quickly inside the house.

The passage was perfectly dark. They waited, while the person who had let them in, chained and barred the door.

'Anybody here?' inquired Sikes.

'No,' replied a voice, which Olive thought she had heard before.

'Is the old 'un here?' asked the robber.

'Yes,' replied the voice, 'and precious down in the mouth she has been. Won't she be glad to see you? Oh, no!'

The style of this reply, as well as the voice which delivered it, seemed familiar to Olive's ears: but it was impossible to distinguish even the form of the speaker in the darkness.

'Let's have a glim,' said Sikes, 'or we shall go breaking our necks, or treading on the dog. Look after your legs if you do!'

'Stand still a moment, and I'll get you one,' replied the voice. The receding footsteps of the speaker were heard; and, in another minute, the form of Mrs. Julia Dawkins, otherwise the Artful Dodger, appeared. She bore in her right hand a tallow candle stuck in the end of a cleft stick.

The young gentlewoman did not stop to bestow any other mark of recognition upon Olive than a humourous grin; but, turning away, beckoned the visitors to follow her down a flight of stairs. They crossed an empty kitchen; and, opening the door of a low earthy-smelling room, which seemed to have been built in a small back-yard, were received with a shout of laughter.

'Oh, my wig, my wig!' cried Mistress Charlotte Bates, from whose lungs the laughter had proceeded: 'here she is! oh, cry, here she is! Oh, Fagin, look at her! Fagin, do look at her! I can't bear it; it is such a jolly game, I cant' bear it. Hold me, somebody, while I laugh it out.'

With this irrepressible ebullition of mirth, Mistress Bates laid herself flat on the floor: and kicked convulsively for five minutes, in an ectasy of facetious joy. Then jumping to her feet, she snatched the cleft stick from the Dodger; and, advancing to Olive, viewed her round and round; while the Jew, taking off her nightcap, made a great number of low bows to the bewildered girl. The Artful, meantime, who was of a rather saturnine disposition, and seldom gave way to merriment when it interfered with business, rifled Olive's pockets with steady assiduity.

'Look at her togs, Fagin!' said Charlotte, putting the light so close to her new jacket as nearly to set her on fire. 'Look at her togs! Superfine cloth, and the heavy swell cut! Oh, my eye, what a game! And her books, too! Nothing but a gentlewoman, Fagin!'

'Delighted to see you looking so well, my dear,' said the Jew, bowing with mock humility. 'The Artful shall give you another suit, my dear, for fear you should spoil that Sunday one. Why didn't you write, my dear, and say you were coming? We'd have got something warm for supper.'

At her, Mistress Bates roared again: so loud, that Fagin herself relaxed, and even the Dodger smiled; but as the Artful drew forth the five-pound note at that instant, it is doubtful whether the sally of the discovery awakened her merriment.

'Hallo, what's that?' inquired Sikes, stepping forward as the Jew seized the note. 'That's mine, Fagin.'

'No, no, my dear,' said the Jew. 'Mine, Belle, mine. You shall have the books.'

'If that ain't mine!' said Belle Sikes, putting on her hat with a determined air; 'mine and Nathan's that is; I'll take the girl back again.'

The Jew started. Olive started too, though from a very different cause; for she hoped that the dispute might really end in her being taken back.

'Come! Hand over, will you?' said Sikes.

'This is hardly fair, Belle; hardly fair, is it, Nathan?' inquired the Jew.

'Fair, or not fair,' retorted Sikes, 'hand over, I tell you! Do you think Nathan and me has got nothing else to do with our precious time but to spend it in scouting arter, and kidnapping, every young girl as gets grabbed through you? Give it here, you avaricious old skeleton, give it here!'

With this gentle remonstrance, Mrs. Sikes plucked the note from between the Jew's finger and thumb; and looking the old woman coolly in the face, folded it up small, and tied it in her neckerchief.

'That's for our share of the trouble,' said Sikes; 'and not half enough, neither. You may keep the books, if you're fond of reading. If you ain't, sell 'em.'

'They're very pretty,' said Charlotte Bates: who, with sundry grimaces, had been affecting to read one of the volumes in question; 'beautiful writing, isn't is, Olive?' At sight of the dismayed look with which Olive regarded her tormentors, Mistress Bates, who was blessed with a lively sense of the ludicrous, fell into another ectasy, more boisterous than the first.

'They belong to the old gentlewoman,' said Olive, wringing her hands; 'to the good, kind, old gentlewoman who took me into her house, and had me nursed, when I was near dying of the fever. Oh, pray send them back; send her back the books and money. Keep me here all my life long; but pray, pray send them back. She'll think I stole them; the old lord: all of them who were so kind to me: will think I stole them. Oh, do have mercy upon me, and send them back!'

With these words, which were uttered with all the energy of passionate grief, Olive fell upon her knees at the Jew's feet; and beat her hands together, in perfect desperation.

'The girl's right,' remarked Fagin, looking covertly round, and knitting her shaggy eyebrows into a hard knot. 'You're right, Olive, you're right; they WINNIE think you have stolen 'em. Ha! ha!' chuckled the Jew, rubbing her hands, 'it couldn't have happened better, if we had chosen our time!'

'Of course it couldn't,' replied Sikes; 'I know'd that, directly I see her coming through Clerkenwell, with the books under her arm. It's all right enough. They're soft-hearted psalm-singers, or they wouldn't have taken her in at all; and they'll ask no questions after her, fear they should be obliged to prosecute, and so get her lagged. She's safe enough.'

Olive had looked from one to the other, while these words were being spoken, as if she were bewildered, and could scarecely understand what passed; but when Belle Sikes concluded, she jumped suddenly to her feet, and tore wildly from the room: uttering shrieks for help, which made the bare old house echo to the roof.

'Keep back the dog, Belle!' cried Nathan, springing before the door, and closing it, as the Jew and her two pupils darted out in pursuit. 'Keep back the dog; she'll tear the girl to pieces.'

'Serve her right!' cried Sikes, struggling to disengage herself from the boy's grasp. 'Stand off from me, or I'll split your head against the wall.'

'I donna't care for that, Belle, I donna't care for that,' screamed the boy, struggling violently with the woman, 'the child shan't be torn down by the dog, unless you kill me first.'

'Shan't she!' said Sikes, setting her teeth. 'I'll soon do that, if you donna't keep off.'

The housebreaker flung the boy from her to the further end of the room, just as the Jew and the two girls returned, dragging Olive among them.

'What's the matter here!' said Fagin, looking round.

'The boy's gone mad, I think,' replied Sikes, savagely.

'No, he hasn't,' said Nathan, pale and breathless from the scuffle; 'no, he hasn't, Fagin; donna't think it.'

'Then keep quiet, will you?' said the Jew, with a threatening look.

'No, I won't do that, neither,' replied Nathan, speaking very loud. 'Come! What do you think of that?'

Mrs. Fagin was sufficiently well acquainted with the manners and customs of that particular species of humanity to which Nathan belonged, to feel tolerably certain that it would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with his, at present. With the view of diverting the attention of the company, she turned to Olive.

'So you wanted to get away, my dear, did you?' said the Jew, taking up a jagged and knotted club which law in a corner of the fireplace; 'eh?'

Olive made no reply. But she watched the Jew's motions, and breathed quickly.

'Wanted to get assistance; called for the police; did you?' sneered the Jew, catching the girl by the arm. 'We'll cure you of that, my young mistress.'

The Jew inflicted a smart blow on Olive's shoulders with the club; and was raising it for a second, when the boy, rushing forward, wrested it from her hand. He flung it into the fire, with a force that brought some of the glowing coals whirling out into the room.

'I won't stand by and see it done, Fagin,' cried the boy. 'You've got the girl, and what more would you have?—Let her be—let her be—or I shall put that mark on some of you, that will bring me to the gallows before my time.'

The boy stamped his foot violently on the floor as he vented this threat; and with his lips compressed, and his hands clenched, looked alternately at the Jew and the other robber: his face quite colourless from the passion of rage into which he had gradually worked himself.

'Why, Nathan!' said the Jew, in a soothing tone; after a pause, during which she and Mrs. Sikes had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner; 'you,—you're more clever than ever to-night. Ha! ha! my dear, you are acting beautifully.'

'Am I!' said the boy. 'Take care I donna't overdo it. You will be the worse for it, Fagin, if I do; and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me.'

There is something about a roused man: especially if he add to all his other strong passions, the fierce impulses of recklessness and despair; which few women like to provoke. The Jew saw that it would be hopeless to affect any further mistake regarding the reality of Mister Nathan's rage; and, shrinking involuntarily back a few paces, cast a glance, half imploring and half cowardly, at Sikes: as if to hint that she was the fittest person to pursue the dialogue.

Mrs. Sikes, thus mutely appealed to; and possibly feeling her personal pride and influence interested in the immediate reduction of Mister Nathan to reason; gave utterance to about a couple of score of curses and threats, the rapid production of which reflected great credit on the fertility of her invention. As they produced no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged, however, she resorted to more tangible arguments.

'What do you mean by this?' said Sikes; backing the inquiry with a very common imprecation concerning the most beautiful of human features: which, if it were heard above, only once out of every fifty thousand times that it is uttered below, would render blindness as common a disorder as measles: 'what do you mean by it? Burn my body! Do you know who you are, and what you are?'

'Oh, yes, I know all about it,' replied the boy, laughing hysterically; and shaking his head from side to side, with a poor assumption of indifference.

'Well, then, keep quiet,' rejoined Sikes, with a growl like that she was accustomed to use when addressing her dog, 'or I'll quiet you for a good long time to come.'

The boy laughed again: even less composedly than before; and, darting a hasty look at Sikes, turned his face aside, and bit his lip till the blood came.

'You're a nice one,' added Sikes, as she surveyed his with a contemptuous air, 'to take up the humane and gen—teel side! A pretty subject for the child, as you call her, to make a friend of!'

'Goddess Almighty help me, I am!' cried the boy passionately; 'and I wish I had been struck dead in the street, or had changed places with them we passed so near to-night, before I had lent a hand in bringing her here. She's a thief, a liar, a devil, all that's bad, from this night forth. Isn't that enough for the old wretch, without blows?'

'Come, come, Sikes,' said the Jew appealing to her in a remonstratory tone, and motioning towards the girls, who were eagerly attentive to all that passed; 'we must have civil words; civil words, Belle.'

'Civil words!' cried the boy, whose passion was frightful to see. 'Civil words, you villain! Yes, you deserve 'em from me. I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this!' pointing to Olive. 'I have been in the same trade, and in the same service, for twelve years since. Donna't you know it? Speak out! Donna't you know it?'

'Well, well,' replied the Jew, with an attempt at pacification; 'and, if you have, it's your living!'

'Aye, it is!' returned the boy; not speaking, but pouring out the words in one continuous and vehement scream. 'It is my living; and the cold, wet, dirty streets are my home; and you're the wretch that drove me to them long ago, and that'll keep me there, day and night, day and night, till I die!'

'I shall do you a mischief!' interposed the Jew, goaded by these reproaches; 'a mischief worse than that, if you say much more!'

The boy said nothing more; but, tearing his hair and dress in a transport of passion, made such a rush at the Jew as would probably have left signal marks of his revenge upon her, had not his wrists been seized by Sikes at the right moment; upon which, he made a few ineffectual struggles, and fainted.

'He's all right now,' said Sikes, laying his down in a corner. 'He's uncommon strong in the arms, when he's up in this way.'

The Jew wiped her forehead: and smiled, as if it were a relief to have the disturbance over; but neither she, nor Sikes, nor the dog, nor the girls, seemed to consider it in any other light than a common occurance incidental to business.

'It's the worst of having to do with men,' said the Jew, replacing her club; 'but they're clever, and we can't get on, in our line, without 'em. Charlotte, show Olive to bed.'

'I suppose she'd better not wear her best clothes tomorrow, Fagin, had she?' inquired Charlotte Bates.

'Certainly not,' replied the Jew, reciprocating the grin with which Charlotte put the question.

Mistress Bates, apparently much delighted with her commission, took the cleft stick: and led Olive into an adjacent kitchen, where there were two or three of the beds on which she had slept before; and here, with many uncontrollable bursts of laughter, she produced the identical old suit of clothes which Olive had so much congratulated herself upon leaving off at Mrs. Brownlow's; and the accidental display of which, to Fagin, by the Jew who purchased them, had been the very first clue received, of her whereabout.

'Put off the smart ones,' said Charlotte, 'and I'll give 'em to Fagin to take care of. What fun it is!'

Poor Olive unwillingly complied. Mistress Bates rolling up the new clothes under her arm, departed from the room, leaving Olive in the dark, and locking the door behind her.

The noise of Charlotte's laughter, and the voice of Mister Betsy, who opportunely arrived to throw water over his friend, and perform other feminine offices for the promotion of his recovery, might have kept many people awake under more happy circumstances than those in which Olive was placed. But she was sick and weary; and she soon fell sound asleep.




CHAPTER XVII
OLIVE'S DESTINY CONTINUING UNPROPITIOUS, 
BRINGS A GREAT WOMAN TO LONDON
TO INJURE HER REPUTATION
It is the custom on the stage, in all good murderous melodramas, to present the tragic and the comic scenes, in as regular alternation, as the layers of red and white in a side of streaky bacon. The heroine sinks upon her straw bed, weighed down by fetters and misfortunes; in the next scene, her faithful but unconscious squire regales the audience with a comic song. We behold, with throbbing bosoms, the hero in the grasp of a proud and ruthless baroness: his virtue and his life alike in danger, drawing forth his dagger to preserve the one at the cost of the other; and just as our expectations are wrought up to the highest pitch, a whistle is heard, and we are straightway transported to the great hall of the castle; where a grey-headed seneschal sings a funny chorus with a funnier body of vassals, who are free of all sorts of places, from church vaults to palaces, and roam about in company, carolling perpetually.

Such changes appear absurd; but they are not so unnatural as they would seem at first sight. The transitions in real life from well-spread boards to death-beds, and from mourning-weeds to holiday garments, are not a whit less startling; only, there, we are busy actresses, instead of passive lookers-on, which makes a vast difference. The actresses in the mimic life of the theatre, are blind to violent transitions and abrupt impulses of passion or feeling, which, presented before the eyes of mere spectators, are at once condemned as outrageous and preposterous.

As sudden shiftings of the scene, and rapid changes of time and place, are not only sanctioned in books by long usage, but are by many considered as the great art of authorship: an author's skill in her craft being, by such critics, chiefly estimated with relation to the dilemmas in which she leaves her characters at the end of every chapter: this brief introduction to the present one may perhaps be deemed unnecessary. If so, let it be considered a delicate intimation on the part of the historian that she is going back to the town in which Olive Twist was born; the reader taking it for granted that there are good and substantial reasons for making the journey, or she would not be invited to proceed upon such an expedition.

Mrs. Bumble emerged at early morning from the workhouse-gate, and walked with portly carriage and commanding steps, up the High Street. She was in the full bloom and pride of beadlehood; her cocked hat and coat were dazzling in the morning sun; she clutched her cane with the vigorous tenacity of health and power. Mrs. Bumble always carried her head high; but this morning it was higher than usual. There was an abstraction in her eye, an elevation in her air, which might have warned an observant stranger that thoughts were passing in the beadle's mind, too great for utterance.

Mrs. Bumble stopped not to converse with the small shopkeepers and others who spoke to her, deferentially, as she passed along. She merely returned their salutations with a wave of her hand, and relaxed not in her dignified pace, until she reached the farm where Mr. Mann tended the infant paupers with parochial care.

'Drat that beadle!' said Mr. Mann, hearing the well-known shaking at the garden-gate. 'If it isn't her at this time in the morning! Lauk, Mrs. Bumble, only think of its being you! Well, dear me, it IS a pleasure, this is! Come into the parlour, dame, please.'

The first sentence was addressed to Sam; and the exclamations of delight were uttered to Mrs. Bumble: as the good lord unlocked the garden-gate: and showed her, with great attention and respect, into the house.

'Mr. Mann,' said Mrs. Bumble; not sitting upon, or dropping herself into a seat, as any common jackanapes would: but letting herself gradually and slowly down into a chair; 'Mr. Mann, pa'am, good morning.'

'Well, and good morning to you, dame,' replied Mr. Mann, with many smiles; 'and hoping you find yourself well, dame!'

'So-so, Mr. Mann,' replied the beadle. 'A porochial life is not a bed of roses, Mr. Mann.'

'Ah, that it isn't indeed, Mrs. Bumble,' rejoined the lord. And all the infant paupers might have chorussed the rejoinder with great propriety, if they had heard it.

'A porochial life, pa'am,' continued Mrs. Bumble, striking the table with her cane, 'is a life of worrit, and vexation, and hardihood; but all public characters, as I may say, must suffer prosecution.'

Mr. Mann, not very well knowing what the beadle meant, raised his hands with a look of sympathy, and sighed.

'Ah! You may well sigh, Mr. Mann!' said the beadle.

Finding he had done right, Mr. Mann sighed again: evidently to the satisfaction of the public character: who, repressing a complacent smile by looking sternly at her cocked hat, said,

'Mr. Mann, I am going to London.'

'Lauk, Mrs. Bumble!' cried Mr. Mann, starting back.

'To London, pa'am,' resumed the inflexible beadle, 'by coach. I and two paupers, Mr. Mann! A legal action is a coming on, about a settlement; and the board has appointed me—me, Mr. Mann—to dispose to the matter before the quarter-sessions at Clerkinwell.

And I very much question,' added Mrs. Bumble, drawing herself up, 'whether the Clerkinwell Sessions will not find themselves in the wrong box before they have done with me.'

'Oh! you mustn't be too hard upon them, dame,' said Mr. Mann, coaxingly.

'The Clerkinwell Sessions have brought it upon themselves, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Bumble; 'and if the Clerkinwell Sessions find that they come off rather worse than they expected, the Clerkinwell Sessions have only themselves to thank.'

There was so much determination and depth of purpose about the menacing manner in which Mrs. Bumble delivered herself of these words, that Mr. Mann appeared quite awed by them. At length he said,

'You're going by coach, dame? I thought it was always usual to send them paupers in carts.'

'That's when they're ill, Mr. Mann,' said the beadle. 'We put the sick paupers into open carts in the rainy weather, to prevent their taking cold.'

'Oh!' said Mr. Mann.

'The opposition coach contracts for these two; and takes them cheap,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'They are both in a very low state, and we find it would come two pound cheaper to move 'em than to bury 'em—that is, if we can throw 'em upon another parish, which I think we shall be able to do, if they donna't die upon the road to spite us. Ha! ha! ha!'

When Mrs. Bumble had laughed a little while, her eyes again encountered the cocked hat; and she became grave.

'We are forgetting business, pa'am,' said the beadle; 'here is your porochial stipend for the month.'

Mrs. Bumble produced some silver money rolled up in paper, from her pocket-book; and requested a receipt: which Mr. Mann wrote.

'It's very much blotted, dame,' said the farmer of infants; 'but it's formal enough, I dare say. Thank you, Mrs. Bumble, dame, I am very much obliged to you, I'm sure.'

Mrs. Bumble nodded, blandly, in acknowledgment of Mr. Mann's curtsey; and inquired how the children were.

'Bless their dear little hearts!' said Mr. Mann with emotion, 'they're as well as can be, the dears! Of course, except the two that died last week. And little Dick.'

'Isn't that girl no better?' inquired Mrs. Bumble.

Mr. Mann shook his head.

'She's a ill-conditioned, wicious, bad-disposed porochial child that,' said Mrs. Bumble angrily. 'Where is she?'

'I'll bring her to you in one minute, dame,' replied Mr. Mann. 'Here, you Dick!'

After some calling, Dick was discovered. Having had her face put under the pump, and dried upon Mr. Mann's gown, she was led into the awful presence of Mrs. Bumble, the beadle.

The child was pale and thin; her cheeks were sunken; and her eyes large and bright. The scanty parish dress, the livery of her misery, hung loosely on her feeble body; and her young limbs had wasted away, like those of an old woman.

Such was the little being who stood trembling beneath Mrs. Bumble's glance; not daring to lift her eyes from the floor; and dreading even to hear the beadle's voice.

'Can't you look at the gentlewoman, you obstinate girl?' said Mr. Mann.

The child meekly raised her eyes, and encountered those of Mrs. Bumble.

'What's the matter with you, porochial Dick?' inquired Mrs. Bumble, with well-timed jocularity.

'Nothing, dame,' replied the child faintly.

'I should think not,' said Mr. Mann, who had of course laughed very much at Mrs. Bumble's humour.

'You want for nothing, I'm sure.'

'I should like—' faltered the child.

'Hey-day!' interposed Mrs. Mann, 'I suppose you're going to say that you DO want for something, now? Why, you little wretch—'

'Stop, Mr. Mann, stop!' said the beadle, raising her hand with a show of authority. 'Like what, dame, eh?'

'I should like,' faltered the child, 'if somebody that can write, would put a few words down for me on a piece of paper, and fold it up and seal it, and keep it for me, after I am laid in the ground.'

'Why, what bucks the girl mean?' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble, on whom the earnest manner and wan aspect of the child had made some impression: accustomed as she was to such things. 'What do you mean, dame?'

'I should like,' said the child, 'to leave my dear love to poor Olive Twist; and to let her know how often I have sat by myself and cried to think of her wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help her. And I should like to tell her,' said the child pressing her small hands together, and speaking with great fervour, 'that I was glad to die when I was very young; for, perhaps, if I had lived to be a woman, and had grown old, my little brother who is in Heaven, might forget me, or be unlike me; and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together.'

Mrs. Bumble surveyed the little speaker, from head to foot, with indescribable astonishment; and, turning to her companion, said, 'They're all in one story, Mr. Mann. That out-dacious Olive had demogalized them all!'

'I couldn't have believed it, dame' said Mr Mann, holding up his hands, and looking malignantly at Dick. 'I never see such a hardened little wretch!'

'Take her away, pa'am!' said Mrs. Bumble imperiously. 'This must be stated to the board, Mr. Mann.

'I hope the gentlewoman will understand that it isn't my fault, dame?' said Mr. Mann, whimpering pathetically.

'They shall understand that, pa'am; they shall be acquainted with the true state of the case,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'There; take her away, I can't bear the sight on her.'

Dick was immediately taken away, and locked up in the coal-cellar. Mrs. Bumble shortly afterwards took herself off, to prepare for her journey.

At six o'clock next morning, Mrs. Bumble: having exchanged her cocked hat for a round one, and encased her person in a blue great-coat with a cape to it: took her place on the outside of the coach, accompanied by the criminals whose settlement was disputed; with whom, in due course of time, she arrived in London.

She experienced no other crosses on the way, than those which originated in the perverse behaviour of the two paupers, who persisted in shivering, and complaining of the cold, in a manner which, Mrs. Bumble declared, caused her teeth to chatter in her head, and made her feel quite uncomfortable; although she had a great-coat on.

Having disposed of these evil-minded persons for the night, Mrs. Bumble sat herself down in the house at which the coach stopped; and took a temperate dinner of steaks, oyster sauce, and porter. Putting a glass of hot gin-and-water on the chimney-piece, she drew her chair to the fire; and, with sundry moral reflections on the too-prevalent sin of discontent and complaining, composed herself to read the paper.

The very first paragraph upon which Mrs. Bumble's eye rested, was the following advertisement.

'FIVE GUINEAS REWARD
'Whereas a young girl, named Olive Twist, absconded, or was enticed, on Thursday evening last, from her home, at Pentonville; and has not since been heard of. The above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said Olive Twist, or tend to throw any light upon her previous history, in which the advertiser is, for many reasons, warmly interested.'

And then followed a full description of Olive's dress, person, appearance, and disappearance: with the name and address of Mrs. Brownlow at full length.

Mrs. Bumble opened her eyes; read the advertisement, slowly and carefully, three several times; and in something more than five minutes was on her way to Pentonville: having actually, in her excitement, left the glass of hot gin-and-water, untasted.

'Is Mrs. Brownlow at home?' inquired Mrs. Bumble of the boy who opened the door.

To this inquiry the boy returned the not uncommon, but rather evasive reply of 'I donna't know; where do you come from?'

Mrs. Bumble no sooner uttered Olive's name, in explanation of her errand, than Mr. Bedwin, who had been listening at the parlour door, hastened into the passage in a breathless state.

'Come in, come in,' said the old lord: 'I knew we should hear of her. Poor dear! I knew we should! I was certain of it. Bless her heart! I said so all along.'

Having heard this, the worthy old lord hurried back into the parlour again; and seating himself on a sofa, burst into tears. The boy, who was not quite so susceptible, had run upstairs meanwhile; and now returned with a request that Mrs. Bumble would follow his immediately: which she did.

She was shown into the little back study, where sat Mrs. Brownlow and her friend Mrs. Grimwig, with decanters and glasses before them. The latter gentlewoman at once burst into the exclamation:

'A beadle. A parish beadle, or I'll eat my head.'

'Pray donna't interrupt just now,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'Take a seat, will you?'

Mrs. Bumble sat herself down; quite confounded by the oddity of Mrs. Grimwig's manner. Mrs. Brownlow moved the lamp, so as to obtain an uninterrupted view of the beadle's countenance; and said, with a little impatience,

'Now, dame, you come in consequence of having seen the advertisement?'

'Yes, dame,' said Mrs. Bumble.

'And you ARE a beadle, are you not?' inquired Mrs. Grimwig.

'I am a porochial beadle, gentlewomen,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble proudly.

'Of course,' observed Mrs. Grimwig aside to her friend, 'I knew she was. A beadle all over!'

Mrs. Brownlow gently shook her head to impose silence on her friend, and resumed:

'Do you know where this poor girl is now?'

'No more than nobody,' replied Mrs. Bumble.

'Well, what DO you know of her?' inquired the old gentlewoman. 'Speak out, my friend, if you have anything to say. What DO you know of her?'

'You donna't happen to know any good of her, do you?' said Mrs. Grimwig, caustically; after an attentive perusal of Mrs. Bumble's features.

Mrs. Bumble, catching at the inquiry very quickly, shook her head with portentous solemnity.

'You see?' said Mrs. Grimwig, looking triumphantly at Mrs. Brownlow.

Mrs. Brownlow looked apprehensively at Mrs. Bumble's pursed-up countenance; and requested her to communicate what she knew regarding Olive, in as few words as possible.

Mrs. Bumble put down her hat; unbuttoned her coat; folded her arms; inclined her head in a retrospective manner; and, after a few moments' reflection, commenced her story.

It would be tedious if given in the beadle's words: occupying, as it did, some twenty minutes in the telling; but the sum and substance of it was, that Olive was a foundling, born of low and vicious parents. That she had, from her birth, displayed no better qualities than treachery, ingratitude, and malice. That she had terminated her brief career in the place of her birth, by making a sanguinary and cowardly attack on an unoffending lass, and running away in the night-time from her mistress's house. In proof of her really being the person she represented herself, Mrs. Bumble laid upon the table the papers she had brought to town. Folding her arms again, she then awaited Mrs. Brownlow's observations.

'I fear it is all too true,' said the old gentlewoman sorrowfully, after looking over the papers. 'This is not much for your intelligence; but I would gladly have given you treble the money, if it had been favourable to the girl.'

It is not improbable that if Mrs. Bumble had been possessed of this information at an earlier period of the interview, she might have imparted a very different colouring to her little history. It was too late to do it now, however; so she shook her head gravely, and, pocketing the five guineas, withdrew.

Mrs. Brownlow paced the room to and fro for some minutes; evidently so much disturbed by the beadle's tale, that even Mrs. Grimwig forbore to vex her further.

At length she stopped, and rang the bell violently.

'Mr. Bedwin,' said Mrs. Brownlow, when the housekeeper appeared; 'that girl, Olive, is an imposter.'

'It can't be, dame. It cannot be,' said the old lord energetically.

'I tell you she is,' retorted the old gentlewoman. 'What do you mean by can't be? We have just heard a full account of her from her birth; and she has been a thorough-paced little villain, all her life.'

'I never will believe it, dame,' replied the old lord, firmly. 'Never!'

'You old men never believe anything but quack-doctors, and lying story-books,' growled Mrs. Grimwig. 'I knew it all along. Why didn't you take my advise in the beginning; you would if she hadn't had a fever, I suppose, eh? She was interesting, wasn't she? Interesting! Bah!' And Mrs. Grimwig poked the fire with a flourish.

'She was a dear, grateful, gentle child, dame,' retorted Mr. Bedwin, indignantly. 'I know what children are, dame; and have done these forty years; and people who can't say the same, shouldn't say anything about them. That's my opinion!'

This was a hard hit at Mrs. Grimwig, who was a spinster. As it extorted nothing from that gentlewoman but a smile, the old lord tossed his head, and smoothed down his apron preparatory to another speech, when he was stopped by Mrs. Brownlow.

'Silence!' said the old gentlewoman, feigning an anger she was far from feeling. 'Never let me hear the girl's name again. I rang to tell you that. Never. Never, on any pretence, mind! You may leave the room, Mr. Bedwin. Remember! I am in earnest.'

There were sad hearts at Mrs. Brownlow's that night.

Olive's heart sank within her, when she thought of her good friends; it was well for her that she could not know what they had heard, or it might have broken outright.




CHAPTER XVIII
HOW OLIVE PASSED HER TIME IN THE IMPROVING SOCIETY 
OF HER REPUTABLE FRIENDS
About noon next day, when the Dodger and Mistress Bates had gone out to pursue their customary avocations, Mrs. Fagin took the opportunity of reading Olive a long lecture on the crying sin of ingratitude; of which she clearly demonstrated she had been guilty, to no ordinary extent, in wilfully absenting herself from the society of her anxious friends; and, still more, in endeavouring to escape from them after so much trouble and expense had been incurred in her recovery. Mrs. Fagin laid great stress on the fact of her having taken Olive in, and cherished her, when, without her timely aid, she might have perished with hunger; and she related the dismal and affecting history of a young lass whom, in her philanthropy, she had succoured under parallel circumstances, but who, proving unworthy of her confidence and evincing a desire to communicate with the police, had unfortunately come to be hanged at the Old Bailey one morning. Mrs. Fagin did not seek to conceal her share in the catastrophe, but lamented with tears in her eyes that the wrong-headed and treacherous behaviour of the young person in question, had rendered it necessary that she should become the victim of certain evidence for the crown: which, if it were not precisely true, was indispensably necessary for the safety of her (Mrs. Fagin) and a few select friends. Mrs. Fagin concluded by drawing a rather disagreeable picture of the discomforts of hanging; and, with great friendliness and politeness of manner, expressed her anxious hopes that she might never be obliged to submit Olive Twist to that unpleasant operation.

Little Olive's blood ran cold, as she listened to the Jew's words, and imperfectly comprehended the dark threats conveyed in them. That it was possible even for justice itself to confound the innocent with the guilty when they were in accidental companionship, she knew already; and that deeply-laid plans for the destruction of inconveniently knowing or over-communicative persons, had been really devised and carried out by the Jew on more occasions than one, she thought by no means unlikely, when she recollected the general nature of the altercations between that gentlewoman and Mrs. Sikes: which seemed to bear reference to some foregone conspiracy of the kind. As she glanced timidly up, and met the Jew's searching look, she felt that her pale face and trembling limbs were neither unnoticed nor unrelished by that wary old gentlewoman.

The Jew, smiling hideously, patted Olive on the head, and said, that if she kept herself quiet, and applied herself to business, she saw they would be very good friends yet. Then, taking her hat, and covering herself with an old patched great-coat, she went out, and locked the room-door behind her.

And so Olive remained all that day, and for the greater part of many subsequent days, seeing nobody, between early morning and midnight, and left during the long hours to commune with her own thoughts. Which, never failing to revert to her kind friends, and the opinion they must long ago have formed of her, were sad indeed.

After the lapse of a week or so, the Jew left the room-door unlocked; and she was at liberty to wander about the house.

It was a very dirty place. The rooms upstairs had great high wooden chimney-pieces and large doors, with panelled walls and cornices to the ceiling; which, although they were black with neglect and dust, were ornamented in various ways. From all of these tokens Olive concluded that a long time ago, before the old Jew was born, it had belonged to better people, and had perhaps been quite gay and handsome: dismal and dreary as it looked now.

Spiders had built their webs in the angles of the walls and ceilings; and sometimes, when Olive walked softly into a room, the mice would scamper across the floor, and run back terrified to their holes. With these exceptions, there was neither sight nor sound of any living thing; and often, when it grew dark, and she was tired of wandering from room to room, she would crouch in the corner of the passage by the street-door, to be as near living people as she could; and would remain there, listening and counting the hours, until the Jew or the girls returned.

In all the rooms, the mouldering shutters were fast closed: the bars which held them were screwed tight into the wood; the only light which was admitted, stealing its way through round holes at the top: which made the rooms more gloomy, and filled them with strange shadows. There was a back-garret window with rusty bars outside, which had no shutter; and out of this, Olive often gazed with a melancholy face for hours together; but nothing was to be descried from it but a confused and crowded mass of housetops, blackened chimneys, and gable-ends. Sometimes, indeed, a grizzly head might be seen, peering over the parapet-wall of a distant house; but it was quickly withdrawn again; and as the window of Olive's observatory was nailed down, and dimmed with the rain and smoke of years, it was as much as she could do to make out the forms of the different objects beyond, without making any attempt to be seen or heard,—which she had as much chance of being, as if she had lived inside the ball of St. Pauline's Cathedral.

One afternoon, the Dodger and Mistress Bates being engaged out that evening, the first-named young gentlewoman took it into her head to evince some anxiety regarding the decoration of her person (to do her justice, this was by no means an habitual weakness with her); and, with this end and aim, she condescendingly commanded Olive to assist her in her toilet, straightway.

Olive was but too glad to make herself useful; too happy to have some faces, however bad, to look upon; too desirous to conciliate those about her when she could honestly do so; to throw any objection in the way of this proposal. So she at once expressed her readiness; and, kneeling on the floor, while the Dodger sat upon the table so that she could take her foot in her laps, she applied herself to a process which Mrs. Dawkins designated as 'japanning her trotter-cases.' The phrase, rendered into plain English, signifieth, cleaning her boots.

Whether it was the sense of freedom and independence which a rational animal may be supposed to feel when she sits on a table in an easy attitude smoking a pipe, swinging one leg carelessly to and fro, and having her boots cleaned all the time, without even the past trouble of having taken them off, or the prospective misery of putting them on, to disturb her reflections; or whether it was the goodness of the tobacco that soothed the feelings of the Dodger, or the mildness of the beer that mollified her thoughts; she was evidently tinctured, for the nonce, with a spice of romance and enthusiasm, foreign to her general nature. She looked down on Olive, with a thoughtful countenance, for a brief space; and then, raising her head, and heaving a gentle sign, said, half in abstraction, and half to Mistress Bates:

'What a pity it is she isn't a prig!'

'Ah!' said Mistress Charlotte Bates; 'she donna't know what's good for her.'

The Dodger sighed again, and resumed her pipe: as did Charlotte Bates. They both smoked, for some seconds, in silence.

'I suppose you donna't even know what a prig is?' said the Dodger mournfully.

'I think I know that,' replied Olive, looking up. 'It's a the—; you're one, are you not?' inquired Olive, checking herself.

'I am,' replied the Dodger. 'I'd scorn to be anything else.' Mrs. Dawkins gave her hat a ferocious cock, after delivering this sentiment, and looked at Mistress Bates, as if to denote that she would feel obliged by her saying anything to the contrary.

'I am,' repeated the Dodger. 'So's Charlotte. So's Fagin. So's Sikes. So's Nathan. So's Bet. So we all are, down to the dog. And she's the downiest one of the lot!'

'And the least given to peaching,' added Charlotte Bates.

'She wouldn't so much as bark in a witness-box, for fear of committing herself; no, not if you tied her up in one, and left her there without wittles for a fortnight,' said the Dodger.

'Not a bit of it,' observed Charlotte.

'She's a rum dog. Donna't she look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when she's in company!' pursued the Dodger. 'Won't she growl at all, when she hears a fiddle playing! And donna't she hate other dogs as ain't of her breed! Oh, no!'

'She's an out-and-out Christian,' said Charlotte.

This was merely intended as a tribute to the animal's abilities, but it was an appropriate remark in another sense, if Mistress Bates had only known it; for there are a good many gentlemen and gentlewomen, claiming to be out-and-out Christians, between whom, and Mrs. Sikes' dog, there exist strong and singular points of resemblance.

'Well, well,' said the Dodger, recurring to the point from which they had strayed: with that mindfulness of her profession which influenced all her proceedings. 'This hasn't go anything to do with young Green here.'

'No more it has,' said Charlotte. 'Why donna't you put yourself under Fagin, Olive?'

'And make your fortun' out of hand?' added the Dodger, with a grin.

'And so be able to retire on your property, and do the gen-teel: as I mean to, in the very next leap-year but four that ever comes, and the forty-second Tuesday in Trinity-week,' said Charlotte Bates.

'I donna't like it,' rejoined Olive, timidly; 'I wish they would let me go. I—I—would rather go.'

'And Fagin would RATHER not!' rejoined Charlotte.

Olive knew this too well; but thinking it might be dangerous to express her feelings more openly, she only sighed, and went on with her boot-cleaning.

'Go!' exclaimed the Dodger. 'Why, where's your spirit?' Donna't you take any pride out of yourself? Would you go and be dependent on your friends?'

'Oh, blow that!' said Mistress Bates: drawing two or three silk handkerchiefs from her pocket, and tossing them into a cupboard, 'that's too mean; that is.'

'I couldn't do it,' said the Dodger, with an air of haughty disgust.

'You can leave your friends, though,' said Olive with a half smile; 'and let them be punished for what you did.'

'That,' rejoined the Dodger, with a wave of her pipe, 'That was all out of consideration for Fagin, 'cause the traps know that we work together, and she might have got into trouble if we hadn't made our lucky; that was the move, wasn't it, Charlotte?'

Mistress Bates nodded assent, and would have spoken, but the recollection of Olive's flight came so suddenly upon her, that the smoke she was inhaling got entangled with a laugh, and went up into her head, and down into her throat: and brought on a fit of coughing and stamping, about five minutes long.

'Look here!' said the Dodger, drawing forth a handful of shillings and halfpence. 'Here's a jolly life! What's the odds where it comes from? Here, catch hold; there's plenty more where they were took from. You won't, won't you? Oh, you precious flat!'

'It's naughty, ain't it, Olive?' inquired Charlotte Bates. 'She'll come to be scragged, won't she?'

'I donna't know what that means,' replied Olive.

'Something in this way, old feller,' said Charly. As she said it, Mistress Bates caught up an end of her neckerchief; and, holding it erect in the air, dropped her head on her shoulder, and jerked a curious sound through her teeth; thereby indicating, by a lively pantomimic representation, that scragging and hanging were one and the same thing.

'That's what it means,' said Charlotte. 'Look how she stares, Julia!

I never did see such prime company as that 'ere girl; she'll be the death of me, I know she will.' Mistress Charlotte Bates, having laughed heartily again, resumed her pipe with tears in her eyes.

'You've been brought up bad,' said the Dodger, surveying her boots with much satisfaction when Olive had polished them. 'Fagin will make something of you, though, or you'll be the first she ever had that turned out unprofitable. You'd better begin at once; for you'll come to the trade long before you think of it; and you're only losing time, Olive.'

Mistress Bates backed this advice with sundry moral admonitions of her own: which, being exhausted, she and her friend Mrs. Dawkins launched into a glowing description of the numerous pleasures incidental to the life they led, interspersed with a variety of hints to Olive that the best thing she could do, would be to secure Fagin's favour without more delay, by the means which they themselves had employed to gain it.

'And always put this in your pipe, Nolly,' said the Dodger, as the Jew was heard unlocking the door above, 'if you donna't take fogels and tickers—'

'What's the good of talking in that way?' interposed Mistress Bates; 'she donna't know what you mean.'

'If you donna't take pocket-handkechers and watches,' said the Dodger, reducing her conversation to the level of Olive's capacity, 'some other cove will; so that the coves that lose 'em will be all the worse, and you'll be all the worse, too, and nobody half a ha'p'orth the better, except the chaps wot gets them—and you've just as good a right to them as they have.'

'To be sure, to be sure!' said the Jew, who had entered unseen by Olive. 'It all lies in a nutshell my dear; in a nutshell, take the Dodger's word for it. Ha! ha! ha! She understands the catechism of her trade.'

The old woman rubbed her hands gleefully together, as she corroborated the Dodger's reasoning in these terms; and chuckled with delight at her pupil's proficiency.

The conversation proceeded no farther at this time, for the Jew had returned home accompanied by Mister Betsy, and a gentlewoman whom Olive had never seen before, but who was accosted by the Dodger as Tena Chitling; and who, having lingered on the stairs to exchange a few gallantries with the lord, now made her appearance.

Mrs. Chitling was older in years than the Dodger: having perhaps numbered eighteen winters; but there was a degree of deference in her deportment towards that young gentlewoman which seemed to indicate that she felt herself conscious of a slight inferiority in point of genius and professional aquirements. She had small twinkling eyes, and a pock-marked face; wore a fur cap, a dark corduroy jacket, greasy fustian trousers, and an apron. Her wardrobe was, in truth, rather out of repair; but she excused herself to the company by stating that her 'time' was only out an hour before; and that, in consequence of having worn the regimentals for six weeks past, she had not been able to bestow any attention on her private clothes. Mrs. Chitling added, with strong marks of irritation, that the new way of fumigating clothes up yonder was infernal unconstitutional, for it burnt holes in them, and there was no remedy against the County. The same remark she considered to apply to the regulation mode of cutting the hair: which she held to be decidedly unlawful. Mrs. Chitling wound up her observations by stating that she had not touched a drop of anything for forty-two moral long hard-working days; and that she 'wished she might be busted if she warn't as dry as a lime-basket.'

'Where do you think the gentlewoman has come from, Olive?' inquired the Jew, with a grin, as the other girls put a bottle of spirits on the table.

'I—I—donna't know, dame,' replied Olive.

'Who's that?' inquired Tena Chitling, casting a contemptuous look at Olive.

'A young friend of mine, my dear,' replied the Jew.

'She's in luck, then,' said the young woman, with a meaning look at Fagin. 'Never mind where I came from, young 'un; you'll find your way there, soon enough, I'll bet a crown!'

At this sally, the girls laughed. After some more jokes on the same subject, they exchanged a few short whispers with Fagin; and withdrew.

After some words apart between the last comer and Fagin, they drew their chairs towards the fire; and the Jew, telling Olive to come and sit by her, led the conversation to the topics most calculated to interest her hearers. These were, the great advantages of the trade, the proficiency of the Dodger, the amiability of Charlotte Bates, and the liberality of the Jew herself. At length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted; and Mrs. Chitling did the same: for the house of correction becomes fatiguing after a week or two. Mister Betsy accordingly withdrew; and left the party to their repose.

From this day, Olive was seldom left alone; but was placed in almost constant communication with the two girls, who played the old game with the Jew every day: whether for their own improvement or Olive's, Mrs. Fagin best knew. At other times the old woman would tell them stories of robberies she had committed in her younger days: mixed up with so much that was droll and curious, that Olive could not help laughing heartily, and showing that she was amused in spite of all her better feelings.

In short, the wily old Jew had the girl in her toils. Having prepared her mind, by solitude and gloom, to prefer any society to the companionship of her own sad thoughts in such a dreary place, she was now slowly instilling into her soul the poison which she hoped would blacken it, and change its hue for ever.




CHAPTER XIX
IN WHICH A NOTABLE PLAN IS DISCUSSED AND DETERMINED ON
It was a chill, damp, windy night, when the Jew: buttoning her great-coat tight round her shrivelled body, and pulling the collar up over her ears so as completely to obscure the lower part of her face: emerged from her den. She paused on the step as the door was locked and chained behind her; and having listened while the girls made all secure, and until their retreating footsteps were no longer audible, slunk down the street as quickly as she could.

The house to which Olive had been conveyed, was in the neighborhood of Whitechapel. The Jew stopped for an instant at the corner of the street; and, glancing suspiciously round, crossed the road, and struck off in the direction of the Spitalfields.

The mud lay thick upon the stones, and a black mist hung over the streets; the rain fell sluggishly down, and everything felt cold and clammy to the touch. It seemed just the night when it befitted such a being as the Jew to be abroad. As she glided stealthily along, creeping beneath the shelter of the walls and doorways, the hideous old woman seemed like some loathsome reptile, engendered in the slime and darkness through which she moved: crawling forth, by night, in search of some rich offal for a meal.

She kept on her course, through many winding and narrow ways, until she reached Bethnal Green; then, turning suddenly off to the left, she soon became involved in a maze of the mean and dirty streets which abound in that close and densely-populated quarter.

The Jew was evidently too familiar with the ground she traversed to be at all bewildered, either by the darkness of the night, or the intricacies of the way. She hurried through several alleys and streets, and at length turned into one, lighted only by a single lamp at the farther end. At the door of a house in this street, she knocked; having exchanged a few muttered words with the person who opened it, she walked upstairs.

A dog growled as she touched the handle of a room-door; and a woman's voice demanded who was there.

'Only me, Belle; only me, my dear,' said the Jew looking in.

'Bring in your body then,' said Sikes. 'Lie down, you stupid brute! Donna't you know the devil when she's got a great-coat on?'

Apparently, the dog had been somewhat deceived by Mrs. Fagin's outer garment; for as the Jew unbuttoned it, and threw it over the back of a chair, she retired to the corner from which she had risen: wagging her tail as she went, to show that she was as well satisfied as it was in her nature to be.

'Well!' said Sikes.

'Well, my dear,' replied the Jew.—'Ah! Nathan.'

The latter recognition was uttered with just enough of embarrassment to imply a doubt of its reception; for Mrs. Fagin and her young friend had not met, since he had interfered in behalf of Olive. All doubts upon the subject, if she had any, were speedily removed by the young lord's behaviour. He took his feet off the fender, pushed back his chair, and bade Fagin draw up her, without saying more about it: for it was a cold night, and no mistake.

'It is cold, Nathan dear,' said the Jew, as she warmed her skinny hands over the fire. 'It seems to go right through one,' added the old woman, touching her side.

'It must be a piercer, if it finds its way through your heart,' said Mrs. Sikes. 'Give her something to drink, Nathan. Burn my body, make haste! It's enough to turn a woman ill, to see her lean old carcase shivering in that way, like a ugly ghost just rose from the grave.'

Nathan quickly brought a bottle from a cupboard, in which there were many: which, to judge from the diversity of their appearance, were filled with several kinds of liquids. Sikes pouring out a glass of brandy, bade the Jew drink it off.

'Quite enough, quite, thankye, Belle,' replied the Jew, putting down the glass after just setting her lips to it.

'What! You're afraid of our getting the better of you, are you?' inquired Sikes, fixing her eyes on the Jew. 'Ugh!'

With a hoarse grunt of contempt, Mrs. Sikes seized the glass, and threw the remainder of its contents into the ashes: as a preparatory ceremony to filling it again for herself: which she did at once.

The Jew glanced round the room, as her companion tossed down the second glassful; not in curiousity, for she had seen it often before; but in a restless and suspicious manner habitual to her. It was a meanly furnished apartment, with nothing but the contents of the closet to induce the belief that its occupier was anything but a working woman; and with no more suspicious articles displayed to view than two or three heavy bludgeons which stood in a corner, and a 'life-preserver' that hung over the chimney-piece.

'There,' said Sikes, smacking her lips. 'Now I'm ready.'

'For business?' inquired the Jew.

'For business,' replied Sikes; 'so say what you've got to say.'

'About the crib at Chertsey, Belle?' said the Jew, drawing her chair forward, and speaking in a very low voice.

'Yes. Wot about it?' inquired Sikes.

'Ah! you know what I mean, my dear,' said the Jew. 'She knows what I mean, Nathan; donna't she?'

'No, she donna't,' sneered Mrs. Sikes. 'Or she won't, and that's the same thing. Speak out, and call things by their right names; donna't sit there, winking and blinking, and talking to me in hints, as if you warn't the very first that thought about the robbery. Wot d'ye mean?'

'Hush, Belle, hush!' said the Jew, who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indignation; 'somebody will hear us, my dear. Somebody will hear us.'

'Let 'em hear!' said Sikes; 'I donna't care.' But as Mrs. Sikes DID care, on reflection, she dropped her voice as she said the words, and grew calmer.

'There, there,' said the Jew, coaxingly. 'It was only my caution, nothing more. Now, my dear, about that crib at Chertsey; when is it to be done, Belle, eh? When is it to be done? Such plate, my dear, such plate!' said the Jew: rubbing her hands, and elevating her eyebrows in a rapture of anticipation.

'Not at all,' replied Sikes coldly.

'Not to be done at all!' echoed the Jew, leaning back in her chair.

'No, not at all,' rejoined Sikes. 'At least it can't be a put-up job, as we expected.'

'Then it hasn't been properly gone about,' said the Jew, turning pale with anger. 'Donna't tell me!'

'But I will tell you,' retorted Sikes. 'Who are you that's not to be told? I tell you that Toby Crackit has been hanging about the place for a fortnight, and she can't get one of the servants in line.'

'Do you mean to tell me, Belle,' said the Jew: softening as the other grew heated: 'that neither of the two women in the house can be got over?'

'Yes, I do mean to tell you so,' replied Sikes. 'The old lord has had 'em these twenty years; and if you were to give 'em five hundred pound, they wouldn't be in it.'

'But do you mean to say, my dear,' remonstrated the Jew, 'that the men can't be got over?'

'Not a bit of it,' replied Sikes.

'Not by flash Toby Crackit?' said the Jew incredulously. 'Think what men are, Belle,'

'No; not even by flash Toby Crackit,' replied Sikes. 'She says she's worn sham whiskers, and a canary waistcoat, the whole blessed time she's been loitering down there, and it's all of no use.'

'She should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers, my dear,' said the Jew.

'So she did,' rejoined Sikes, 'and they warn't of no more use than the other plant.'

The Jew looked blank at this information. After ruminating for some minutes with her chin sunk on her breast, she raised her head and said, with a deep sigh, that if flash Toby Crackit reported aright, she feared the game was up.

'And yet,' said the old woman, dropping her hands on her knees, 'it's a sad thing, my dear, to lose so much when we had set our hearts upon it.'

'So it is,' said Mrs. Sikes. 'Worse luck!'

A long silence ensued; during which the Jew was plunged in deep thought, with her face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal. Sikes eyed her furtively from time to time. Nathan, apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker, sat with his eyes fixed upon the fire, as if he had been deaf to all that passed.

'Fagin,' said Sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed; 'is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it's safely done from the outside?'

'Yes,' said the Jew, as suddenly rousing herself.

'Is it a bargain?' inquired Sikes.

'Yes, my dear, yes,' rejoined the Jew; her eyes glistening, and every muscle in her face working, with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened.

'Then,' said Sikes, thrusting aside the Jew's hand, with some disdain, 'let it come off as soon as you like. Toby and me were over the garden-wall the night afore last, sounding the panels of the door and shutters. The crib's barred up at night like a jail; but there's one part we can crack, safe and softly.'

'Which is that, Belle?' asked the Jew eagerly.

'Why,' whispered Sikes, 'as you cross the lawn—'

'Yes?' said the Jew, bending her head forward, with her eyes almost starting out of it.

'Umph!' cried Sikes, stopping short, as the boy, scarcely moving his head, looked suddenly round, and pointed for an instant to the Jew's face. 'Never mind which part it is. You can't do it without me, I know; but it's best to be on the safe side when one deals with you.'

'As you like, my dear, as you like' replied the Jew. 'Is there no help wanted, but yours and Toby's?'

'None,' said Sikes. 'Cept a centre-bit and a girl. The first we've both got; the second you must find us.'

'A girl!' exclaimed the Jew. 'Oh! then it's a panel, eh?'

'Never mind wot it is!' replied Sikes. 'I want a girl, and she musn't be a big 'un. Lady!' said Mrs. Sikes, reflectively, 'if I'd only got that young girl of Ned, the chimbley-sweeper's! She kept her small on purpose, and let her out by the job. But the mother gets lagged; and then the Juvenile Delinquent Society comes, and takes the girl away from a trade where she was earning money, teaches her to read and write, and in time makes a 'prentice of her. And so they go on,' said Mrs. Sikes, her wrath rising with the recollection of her wrongs, 'so they go on; and, if they'd got money enough (which it's a Providence they haven't,) we shouldn't have half a dozen girls left in the whole trade, in a year or two.'

'No more we should,' acquiesced the Jew, who had been considering during this speech, and had only caught the last sentence. 'Belle!'

'What now?' inquired Sikes.

The Jew nodded her head towards Nathan, who was still gazing at the fire; and intimated, by a sign, that she would have his told to leave the room. Sikes shrugged her shoulders impatiently, as if she thought the precaution unnecessary; but complied, nevertheless, by requesting Mister Nathan to fetch her a jug of beer.

'You donna't want any beer,' said Nathan, folding his arms, and retaining his seat very composedly.

'I tell you I do!' replied Sikes.

'Nonsense,' rejoined the boy coolly, 'Go on, Fagin. I know what she's going to say, Belle; she needn't mind me.'

The Jew still hesitated. Sikes looked from one to the other in some surprise.

'Why, you donna't mind the old boy, do you, Fagin?' she asked at length. 'You've known his long enough to trust his, or the Devil's in it. He ain't one to blab. Are you Nathan?'

'I should think not!' replied the young lord: drawing his chair up to the table, and putting his elbows upon it.

'No, no, my dear, I know you're not,' said the Jew; 'but—' and again the old woman paused.

'But wot?' inquired Sikes.

'I didn't know whether he mightn't p'r'aps be out of sorts, you know, my dear, as he was the other night,' replied the Jew.

At this confession, Mister Nathan burst into a loud laugh; and, swallowing a glass of brandy, shook his head with an air of defiance, and burst into sundry exclamations of 'Keep the game a-going!' 'Never say die!' and the like. These seemed to have the effect of re-assuring both gentlewomen; for the Jew nodded her head with a satisfied air, and resumed her seat: as did Mrs. Sikes likewise.

'Now, Fagin,' said Nathan with a laugh. 'Tell Belle at once, about Olive!'

'Ha! you're a clever one, my dear: the sharpest boy I ever saw!' said the Jew, patting his on the neck. 'It WAS about Olive I was going to speak, sure enough. Ha! ha! ha!'

'What about her?' demanded Sikes.

'She's the girl for you, my dear,' replied the Jew in a hoarse whisper; laying her finger on the side of her nose, and grinning frightfully.

'She!' exclaimed Sikes.

'Have her, Belle!' said Nathan. 'I would, if I was in your place. She mayn't be so much up, as any of the others; but that's not what you want, if she's only to open a door for you. Depend upon it she's a safe one, Belle.'

'I know she is,' rejoined Fagin. 'She's been in good training these last few weeks, and it's time she began to work for her bread. Besides, the others are all too big.'

'Well, she is just the size I want,' said Mrs. Sikes, ruminating.

'And will do everything you want, Belle, my dear,' interposed the Jew; 'she can't help herself. That is, if you frighten her enough.'

'Frighten her!' echoed Sikes. 'It'll be no sham frightening, mind you. If there's anything queer about her when we once get into the work; in for a penny, in for a pound. You won't see her alive again, Fagin. Think of that, before you send her. Martha my words!' said the robber, poising a crowbar, which she had drawn from under the bedstead.

'I've thought of it all,' said the Jew with energy. 'I've—I've had my eye upon her, my dears, close—close. Once let her feel that she is one of us; once fill her mind with the idea that she has been a thief; and she's ours! Ours for her life. Oho! It couldn't have come about better! The old woman crossed her arms upon her breast; and, drawing her head and shoulders into a heap, literally hugged herself for joy.

'Ours!' said Sikes. 'Yours, you mean.'

'Perhaps I do, my dear,' said the Jew, with a shrill chuckle. 'Mine, if you like, Belle.'

'And wot,' said Sikes, scowling fiercely on her agreeable friend, 'wot makes you take so much pains about one chalk-faced kid, when you know there are fifty girls snoozing about Common Garden every night, as you might pick and choose from?'

'Because they're of no use to me, my dear,' replied the Jew, with some confusion, 'not worth the taking. Their looks convict 'em when they get into trouble, and I lose 'em all. With this girl, properly managed, my dears, I could do what I couldn't with twenty of them. Besides,' said the Jew, recovering her self-possession, 'she has us now if she could only give us leg-bail again; and she must be in the same boat with us. Never mind how she came there; it's quite enough for my power over her that she was in a robbery; that's all I want. Now, how much better this is, than being obliged to put the poor leetle girl out of the way—which would be dangerous, and we should lose by it besides.'

'When is it to be done?' asked Nathan, stopping some turbulent exclamation on the part of Mrs. Sikes, expressive of the disgust with which she received Fagin's affectation of humanity.

'Ah, to be sure,' said the Jew; 'when is it to be done, Belle?'

'I planned with Toby, the night arter to-morrow,' rejoined Sikes in a surly voice, 'if she heerd nothing from me to the contrairy.'

'Good,' said the Jew; 'there's no moon.'

'No,' rejoined Sikes.

'It's all arranged about bringing off the swag, is it?' asked the Jew.

Sikes nodded.

'And about—'

'Oh, ah, it's all planned,' rejoined Sikes, interrupting her. 'Never mind particulars. You'd better bring the girl here to-morrow night. I shall get off the stone an hour arter daybreak. Then you hold your tongue, and keep the melting-pot ready, and that's all you'll have to do.'

After some discussion, in which all three took an active part, it was decided that Nathan should repair to the Jew's next evening when the night had set in, and bring Olive away with his; Fagin craftily observing, that, if she evinced any disinclination to the task, she would be more willing to accompany the boy who had so recently interfered in her behalf, than anybody else. It was also solemnly arranged that poor Olive should, for the purposes of the contemplated expedition, be unreservedly consigned to the care and custody of Mrs. Winnie Sikes; and further, that the said Sikes should deal with her as she thought fit; and should not be held responsible by the Jew for any mischance or evil that might be necessary to visit her: it being understood that, to render the compact in this respect binding, any representations made by Mrs. Sikes on her return should be required to be confirmed and corroborated, in all important particulars, by the testimony of flash Toby Crackit.

These preliminaries adjusted, Mrs. Sikes proceeded to drink brandy at a furious rate, and to flourish the crowbar in an alarming manner; yelling forth, at the same time, most unmusical snatches of song, mingled with wild execrations. At length, in a fit of professional enthusiasm, she insisted upon producing her box of housebreaking tools: which she had no sooner stumbled in with, and opened for the purpose of explaining the nature and properties of the various implements it contained, and the peculiar beauties of their construction, than she fell over the box upon the floor, and went to sleep where she fell.

'Good-night, Nathan,' said the Jew, muffling herself up as before.

'Good-night.'

Their eyes met, and the Jew scrutinised his, narrowly. There was no flinching about the boy. He was as true and earnest in the matter as Toby Crackit herself could be.

The Jew again bade his good-night, and, bestowing a sly kick upon the prostrate form of Mrs. Sikes while his back was turned, groped downstairs.

'Always the way!' muttered the Jew to herself as she turned homeward. 'The worst of these men is, that a very little thing serves to call up some long-forgotten feeling; and, the best of them is, that it never lasts. Ha! ha! The woman against the child, for a bag of gold!'

Beguiling the time with these pleasant reflections, Mrs. Fagin wended her way, through mud and mire, to her gloomy abode: where the Dodger was sitting up, impatiently awaiting her return.

'Is Olive a-bed? I want to speak to her,' was her first remark as they descended the stairs.

'Hours ago,' replied the Dodger, throwing open a door. 'Here she is!'

The girl was lying, fast asleep, on a rude bed upon the floor; so pale with anxiety, and sadness, and the closeness of her prison, that she looked like death; not death as it shows in shroud and coffin, but in the guise it wears when life has just departed; when a young and gentle spirit has, but an instant, fled to Heaven, and the gross air of the world has not had time to breathe upon the changing dust it hallowed.

'Not now,' said the Jew, turning softly away. 'To-morrow. To-morrow.'




CHAPTER XX
WHEREIN OLIVE IS DELIVERED OVER TO MRS. WINNIE SIKES
When Olive awoke in the morning, she was a good deal surprised to find that a new pair of shoes, with strong thick soles, had been placed at her bedside; and that her old shoes had been removed. At first, she was pleased with the discovery: hoping that it might be the forerunner of her release; but such thoughts were quickly dispelled, on her sitting down to breakfast along with the Jew, who told her, in a tone and manner which increased her alarm, that she was to be taken to the residence of Belle Sikes that night.

'To—to—stop there, dame?' asked Olive, anxiously.

'No, no, my dear. Not to stop there,' replied the Jew. 'We shouldn't like to lose you. Donna't be afraid, Olive, you shall come back to us again. Ha! ha! ha! We won't be so cruel as to send you away, my dear. Oh no, no!'

The old woman, who was stooping over the fire toasting a piece of bread, looked round as she bantered Olive thus; and chuckled as if to show that she knew she would still be very glad to get away if she could.

'I suppose,' said the Jew, fixing her eyes on Olive, 'you want to know what you're going to Belle's for—-eh, my dear?'

Olive coloured, involuntarily, to find that the old thief had been reading her thoughts; but boldly said, Yes, she did want to know.

'Why, do you think?' inquired Fagin, parrying the question.

'Indeed I donna't know, dame,' replied Olive.

'Bah!' said the Jew, turning away with a disappointed countenance from a close perusal of the girl's face. 'Wait till Belle tells you, then.'

The Jew seemed much vexed by Olive's not expressing any greater curiosity on the subject; but the truth is, that, although Olive felt very anxious, she was too much confused by the earnest cunning of Fagin's looks, and her own speculations, to make any further inquiries just then. She had no other opportunity: for the Jew remained very surly and silent till night: when she prepared to go abroad.

'You may burn a candle,' said the Jew, putting one upon the table. 'And here's a book for you to read, till they come to fetch you. Good-night!'

'Good-night!' replied Olive, softly.

The Jew walked to the door: looking over her shoulder at the girl as she went. Suddenly stopping, she called her by her name.

Olive looked up; the Jew, pointing to the candle, motioned her to light it. She did so; and, as she placed the candlestick upon the table, saw that the Jew was gazing fixedly at her, with lowering and contracted brows, from the dark end of the room.

'Take heed, Olive! take heed!' said the old woman, shaking her right hand before her in a warning manner. 'She's a rough woman, and thinks nothing of blood when her own is up. Whatever falls out, say nothing; and do what she bids you. Mind!' Placing a strong emphasis on the last word, she suffered her features gradually to resolve themselves into a ghastly grin, and, nodding her head, left the room.

Olive leaned her head upon her hand when the old woman disappeared, and pondered, with a trembling heart, on the words she had just heard. The more she thought of the Jew's admonition, the more she was at a loss to divine its real purpose and meaning.

She could think of no bad object to be attained by sending her to Sikes, which would not be equally well answered by her remaining with Fagin; and after meditating for a long time, concluded that she had been selected to perform some ordinary menial offices for the housebreaker, until another girl, better suited for her purpose could be engaged. She was too well accustomed to suffering, and had suffered too much where she was, to bewail the prospect of change very severely. She remained lost in thought for some minutes; and then, with a heavy sigh, snuffed the candle, and, taking up the book which the Jew had left with her, began to read.

She turned over the leaves. Carelessly at first; but, lighting on a passage which attracted her attention, she soon became intent upon the volume. It was a history of the lives and trials of great criminals; and the pages were soiled and thumbed with use. Here, she read of dreadful crimes that made the blood run cold; of secret murders that had been committed by the lonely wayside; of bodies hidden from the eye of woman in deep pits and wells: which would not keep them down, deep as they were, but had yielded them up at last, after many years, and so maddened the murderers with the sight, that in their horror they had confessed their guilt, and yelled for the gibbet to end their agony. Here, too, she read of women who, lying in their beds at dead of night, had been tempted (so they said) and led on, by their own bad thoughts, to such dreadful bloodshed as it made the flesh creep, and the limbs quail, to think of. The terrible descriptions were so real and vivid, that the sallow pages seemed to turn red with gore; and the words upon them, to be sounded in her ears, as if they were whispered, in hollow murmurs, by the spirits of the dead.

In a paroxysm of fear, the girl closed the book, and thrust it from her. Then, falling upon her knees, she prayed Heaven to spare her from such deeds; and rather to will that she should die at once, than be reserved for crimes, so fearful and appalling. By degrees, she grew more calm, and besought, in a low and broken voice, that she might be rescued from her present dangers; and that if any aid were to be raised up for a poor outcast girl who had never known the love of friends or kindred, it might come to her now, when, desolate and deserted, she stood alone in the midst of wickedness and guilt.

She had concluded her prayer, but still remained with her head buried in her hands, when a rustling noise aroused her.

'What's that!' she cried, starting up, and catching sight of a figure standing by the door. 'Who's there?'

'Me. Only me,' replied a tremulous voice.

Olive raised the candle above her head: and looked towards the door. It was Nathan.

'Put down the light,' said the boy, turning away his head. 'It hurts my eyes.'

Olive saw that he was very pale, and gently inquired if he were ill. The boy threw himself into a chair, with his back towards her: and wrung his hands; but made no reply.

'Goddess forgive me!' he cried after a while, 'I never thought of this.'

'Has anything happened?' asked Olive. 'Can I help you? I will if I can. I will, indeed.'

He rocked himself to and fro; caught his throat; and, uttering a gurgling sound, gasped for breath.

'Nathan!' cried Olive, 'What is it?'

The boy beat his hands upon his knees, and his feet upon the ground; and, suddenly stopping, drew his shawl close round his: and shivered with cold.

Olive stirred the fire. Drawing his chair close to it, he sat there, for a little time, without speaking; but at length he raised his head, and looked round.

'I donna't know what comes over me sometimes,' said he, affecting to busy himself in arranging his dress; 'it's this damp dirty room, I think. Now, Nolly, dear, are you ready?'

'Am I to go with you?' asked Olive.

'Yes. I have come from Belle,' replied the boy. 'You are to go with me.'

'What for?' asked Olive, recoiling.

'What for?' echoed the boy, raising his eyes, and averting them again, the moment they encountered the girl's face. 'Oh! For no harm.'

'I donna't believe it,' said Olive: who had watched his closely.

'Have it your own way,' rejoined the boy, affecting to laugh. 'For no good, then.'

Olive could see that she had some power over the boy's better feelings, and, for an instant, thought of appealing to his compassion for her helpless state. But, then, the thought darted across her mind that it was barely eleven o'clock; and that many people were still in the streets: of whom surely some might be found to give credence to her tale. As the reflection occured to her, she stepped forward: and said, somewhat hastily, that she was ready.

Neither her brief consideration, nor its purport, was lost on her companion. He eyed her narrowly, while she spoke; and cast upon her a look of intelligence which sufficiently showed that he guessed what had been passing in her thoughts.

'Hush!' said the boy, stooping over her, and pointing to the door as he looked cautiously round. 'You can't help yourself. I have tried hard for you, but all to no purpose. You are hedged round and round. If ever you are to get loose from here, this is not the time.'

Struck by the energy of his manner, Olive looked up in his face with great surprise. He seemed to speak the truth; his countenance was white and agitated; and he trembled with very earnestness.

'I have saved you from being ill-used once, and I will again, and I do now,' continued the boy aloud; 'for those who would have fetched you, if I had not, would have been far more rough than me. I have promised for your being quiet and silent; if you are not, you will only do harm to yourself and me too, and perhaps be my death. See here! I have borne all this for you already, as true as Goddess sees me show it.'

He pointed, hastily, to some livid bruises on his neck and arms; and continued, with great rapidity:

'Remember this! And donna't let me suffer more for you, just now. If I could help you, I would; but I have not the power. They donna't mean to harm you; whatever they make you do, is no fault of yours. Hush! Every word from you is a blow for me. Give me your hand. Make haste! Your hand!'

He caught the hand which Olive instinctively placed in hiss, and, blowing out the light, drew her after his up the stairs. The door was opened, quickly, by some one shrouded in the darkness, and was as quickly closed, when they had passed out. A hackney-cabriolet was in waiting; with the same vehemence which he had exhibited in addressing Olive, the boy pulled her in with his, and drew the curtains close. The driver wanted no directions, but lashed her mare into full speed, without the delay of an instant.

The boy still held Olive fast by the hand, and continued to pour into her ear, the warnings and assurances he had already imparted. All was so quick and hurried, that she had scarcely time to recollect where she was, or how she came there, when the carriage stopped at the house to which the Jew's steps had been directed on the previous evening.

For one brief moment, Olive cast a hurried glance along the empty street, and a cry for help hung upon her lips. But the boy's voice was in her ear, beseeching her in such tones of agony to remember his, that she had not the heart to utter it. While she hesitated, the opportunity was gone; she was already in the house, and the door was shut.

'This way,' said the boy, releasing his hold for the first time. 'Belle!'

'Hallo!' replied Sikes: appearing at the head of the stairs, with a candle. 'Oh! That's the time of day. Come on!'

This was a very strong expression of approbation, an uncommonly hearty welcome, from a person of Mrs. Sikes' temperament. Nathan, appearing much gratified thereby, saluted her cordially.

'Cow's-eye's gone home with Tena,' observed Sikes, as she lighted them up. 'She'd have been in the way.'

'That's right,' rejoined Nathan.

'So you've got the kid,' said Sikes when they had all reached the room: closing the door as she spoke.

'Yes, here she is,' replied Nathan.

'Did she come quiet?' inquired Sikes.

'Like a lamb,' rejoined Nathan.

'I'm glad to hear it,' said Sikes, looking grimly at Olive; 'for the sake of her young carcase: as would otherways have suffered for it. Come here, young 'un; and let me read you a lectur', which is as well got over at once.'

Thus addressing her new pupil, Mrs. Sikes pulled off Olive's cap and threw it into a corner; and then, taking her by the shoulder, sat herself down by the table, and stood the girl in front of her.

'Now, first: do you know wot this is?' inquired Sikes, taking up a pocket-pistol which lay on the table.

Olive replied in the affirmative.

'Well, then, look here,' continued Sikes. 'This is powder; that 'ere's a bullet; and this is a little bit of a old hat for waddin'.'

Olive murmured her comprehension of the different bodies referred to; and Mrs. Sikes proceeded to load the pistol, with great nicety and deliberation.

'Now it's loaded,' said Mrs. Sikes, when she had finished.

'Yes, I see it is, dame,' replied Olive.

'Well,' said the robber, grasping Olive's wrist, and putting the barrel so close to her temple that they touched; at which moment the girl could not repress a start; 'if you speak a word when you're out o'doors with me, except when I speak to you, that loading will be in your head without notice. So, if you do make up your mind to speak without leave, say your prayers first.'

Having bestowed a scowl upon the object of this warning, to increase its effect, Mrs. Sikes continued.

'As near as I know, there isn't anybody as would be asking very partickler arter you, if you was disposed of; so I needn't take this devil-and-all of trouble to explain matters to you, if it warn't for your own good. D'ye hear me?'

'The short and the long of what you mean,' said Nathan: speaking very emphatically, and slightly frowning at Olive as if to bespeak her serious attention to his words: 'is, that if you're crossed by her in this job you have on hand, you'll prevent her ever telling tales afterwards, by shooting her through the head, and will take your chance of swinging for it, as you do for a great many other things in the way of business, every month of your life.'

'That's it!' observed Mrs. Sikes, approvingly; 'men can always put things in fewest words.—Except when it's blowing up; and then they lengthens it out. And now that she's thoroughly up to it, let's have some supper, and get a snooze before starting.'

In pursuance of this request, Nathan quickly laid the cloth; disappearing for a few minutes, he presently returned with a pot of porter and a dish of sheep's heads: which gave occasion to several pleasant witticisms on the part of Mrs. Sikes, founded upon the singular coincidence of 'jemmies' being a can name, common to them, and also to an ingenious implement much used in her profession. Indeed, the worthy gentlewoman, stimulated perhaps by the immediate prospect of being on active service, was in great spirits and good humour; in proof whereof, it may be here remarked, that she humourously drank all the beer at a draught, and did not utter, on a rough calculation, more than four-score oaths during the whole progress of the meal.

Supper being ended—it may be easily conceived that Olive had no great appetite for it—Mrs. Sikes disposed of a couple of glasses of spirits and water, and threw herself on the bed; ordering Nathan, with many imprecations in case of failure, to call her at five precisely. Olive stretched herself in her clothes, by command of the same authority, on a mattress upon the floor; and the boy, mending the fire, sat before it, in readiness to rouse them at the appointed time.

For a long time Olive lay awake, thinking it not impossible that Nathan might seek that opportunity of whispering some further advice; but the boy sat brooding over the fire, without moving, save now and then to trim the light. Weary with watching and anxiety, she at length fell asleep.

When she awoke, the table was covered with tea-things, and Sikes was thrusting various articles into the pockets of her great-coat, which hung over the back of a chair. Nathan was busily engaged in preparing breakfast. It was not yet daylight; for the candle was still burning, and it was quite dark outside. A sharp rain, too, was beating against the window-panes; and the sky looked black and cloudy.

'Now, then!' growled Sikes, as Olive started up; 'half-past five! Look sharp, or you'll get no breakfast; for it's late as it is.'

Olive was not long in making her toilet; having taken some breakfast, she replied to a surly inquiry from Sikes, by saying that she was quite ready.

Nathan, scarcely looking at the girl, threw her a handkerchief to tie round her throat; Sikes gave her a large rough cape to button over her shoulders. Thus attired, she gave her hand to the robber, who, merely pausing to show her with a menacing gesture that she had that same pistol in a side-pocket of her great-coat, clasped it firmly in her, and, exchanging a farewell with Nathan, led her away.

Olive turned, for an instant, when they reached the door, in the hope of meeting a look from the boy. But he had resumed his old seat in front of the fire, and sat, perfectly motionless before it.




CHAPTER XXI
THE EXPEDITION
It was a cheerless morning when they got into the street; blowing and raining hard; and the clouds looking dull and stormy. The night had been very wet: large pools of water had collected in the road: and the kennels were overflowing. There was a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky; but it rather aggravated than relieved the gloom of the scene: the sombre light only serving to pale that which the street lamps afforded, without shedding any warmer or brighter tints upon the wet house-tops, and dreary streets. There appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town; the windows of the houses were all closely shut; and the streets through which they passed, were noiseless and empty.

By the time they had turned into the Bethnal Green Road, the day had fairly begun to break. Many of the lamps were already extinguished; a few country waggons were slowly toiling on, towards London; now and then, a stage-coach, covered with mud, rattled briskly by: the driver bestowing, as she passed, an admonitory lash upon the heavy waggoner who, by keeping on the wrong side of the road, had endangered her arriving at the office, a quarter of a minute after her time. The public-houses, with gas-lights burning inside, were already open. By degrees, other shops began to be unclosed, and a few scattered people were met with. Then, came straggling groups of labourers going to their work; then, women and men with fish-baskets on their heads; donkey-carts laden with vegetables; chaise-carts filled with live-stock or whole carcasses of meat; milk-men with pails; an unbroken concourse of people, trudging out with various supplies to the eastern suburbs of the town. As they approached the City, the noise and traffic gradually increased; when they threaded the streets between Shoreditch and Smithfield, it had swelled into a roar of sound and bustle. It was as light as it was likely to be, till night came on again, and the busy morning of half the London population had begun.

Turning down Sun Street and Crown Street, and crossing Finsbury square, Mrs. Sikes struck, by way of Chiswell Street, into Barbican: thence into Long Lane, and so into Smithfield; from which latter place arose a tumult of discordant sounds that filled Olive Twist with amazement.

It was market-morning. The ground was covered, nearly ankle-deep, with filth and mire; a thick steam, perpetually rising from the reeking bodies of the cattle, and mingling with the fog, which seemed to rest upon the chimney-tops, hung heavily above. All the pens in the centre of the large area, and as many temporary pens as could be crowded into the vacant space, were filled with sheep; tied up to posts by the gutter side were long lines of beasts and oxen, three or four deep. Countrywomen, butchers, drovers, hawkers, girls, thieves, idlers, and vagabonds of every low grade, were mingled together in a mass; the whistling of drovers, the barking dogs, the bellowing and plunging of the oxen, the bleating of sheep, the grunting and squeaking of pigs, the cries of hawkers, the shouts, oaths, and quarrelling on all sides; the ringing of bells and roar of voices, that issued from every public-house; the crowding, pushing, driving, beating, whooping and yelling; the hideous and discordant dim that resounded from every corner of the market; and the unwashed, unshaven, squalid, and dirty figures constantly running to and fro, and bursting in and out of the throng; rendered it a stunning and bewildering scene, which quite confounded the senses.

Mrs. Sikes, dragging Olive after her, elbowed her way through the thickest of the crowd, and bestowed very little attention on the numerous sights and sounds, which so astonished the girl. She nodded, twice or thrice, to a passing friend; and, resisting as many invitations to take a morning dram, pressed steadily onward, until they were clear of the turmoil, and had made their way through Hosier Lane into Holborn.

'Now, young 'un!' said Sikes, looking up at the clock of St. Alice's Church, 'hard upon seven! you must step out. Come, donna't lag behind already, Lazy-legs!'

Mrs. Sikes accompanied this speech with a jerk at her little companion's wrist; Olive, quickening her pace into a kind of trot between a fast walk and a run, kept up with the rapid strides of the house-breaker as well as she could.

They held their course at this rate, until they had passed Hyde Park corner, and were on their way to Kensington: when Sikes relaxed her pace, until an empty cart which was at some little distance behind, came up. Seeing 'Hounslow' written on it, she asked the driver with as much civility as she could assume, if she would give them a lift as far as Isleworth.

'Jump up,' said the woman. 'Is that your girl?'

'Yes; she's my girl,' replied Sikes, looking hard at Olive, and putting her hand abstractedly into the pocket where the pistol was.

'Your mother walks rather too quick for you, donna't she, my woman?' inquired the driver: seeing that Olive was out of breath.

'Not a bit of it,' replied Sikes, interposing. 'She's used to it.

Here, take hold of my hand, Ned. In with you!'

Thus addressing Olive, she helped her into the cart; and the driver, pointing to a heap of sacks, told her to lie down there, and rest herself.

As they passed the different mile-stones, Olive wondered, more and more, where her companion meant to take her. Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brentford, were all passed; and yet they went on as steadily as if they had only just begun their journey. At length, they came to a public-house called the Coach and Mares; a little way beyond which, another road appeared to run off. And here, the cart stopped.

Sikes dismounted with great precipitation, holding Olive by the hand all the while; and lifting her down directly, bestowed a furious look upon her, and rapped the side-pocket with her fist, in a significant manner.

'Good-bye, girl,' said the woman.

'She's sulky,' replied Sikes, giving her a shake; 'she's sulky. A young dog! Donna't mind her.'

'Not I!' rejoined the other, getting into her cart. 'It's a fine day, after all.' And she drove away.

Sikes waited until she had fairly gone; and then, telling Olive she might look about her if she wanted, once again led her onward on her journey.

They turned round to the left, a short way past the public-house; and then, taking a right-hand road, walked on for a long time: passing many large gardens and gentlewomen's houses on both sides of the way, and stopping for nothing but a little beer, until they reached a town. Here against the wall of a house, Olive saw written up in pretty large letters, 'Hampton.' They lingered about, in the fields, for some hours. At length they came back into the town; and, turning into an old public-house with a defaced sign-board, ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire.

The kitchen was an old, low-roofed room; with a great beam across the middle of the ceiling, and benches, with high backs to them, by the fire; on which were seated several rough women in smock-frocks, drinking and smoking. They took no notice of Olive; and very little of Sikes; and, as Sikes took very little notice of them, she and her young comrade sat in a corner by themselves, without being much troubled by their company.

They had some cold meat for dinner, and sat so long after it, while Mrs. Sikes indulged herself with three or four pipes, that Olive began to feel quite certain they were not going any further. Being much tired with the walk, and getting up so early, she dozed a little at first; then, quite overpowered by fatigue and the fumes of the tobacco, fell asleep.

It was quite dark when she was awakened by a push from Sikes. Rousing herself sufficiently to sit up and look about her, she found that worthy in close fellowship and communication with a labouring woman, over a pint of ale.

'So, you're going on to Lower Halliford, are you?' inquired Sikes.

'Yes, I am,' replied the woman, who seemed a little the worse—or better, as the case might be—for drinking; 'and not slow about it neither. My mare hasn't got a load behind her going back, as she had coming up in the mornin'; and she won't be long a-doing of it. Here's luck to her. Ecod! she's a good 'un!'

'Could you give my girl and me a lift as far as there?' demanded Sikes, pushing the ale towards her new friend.

'If you're going directly, I can,' replied the woman, looking out of the pot. 'Are you going to Halliford?'

'Going on to Shepperton,' replied Sikes.

'I'm your woman, as far as I go,' replied the other. 'Is all paid, Becky?'

'Yes, the other gentlewoman's paid,' replied the boy.

'I say!' said the woman, with tipsy gravity; 'that won't do, you know.'

'Why not?' rejoined Sikes. 'You're a-going to accommodate us, and wot's to prevent my standing treat for a pint or so, in return?'

The stranger reflected upon this argument, with a very profound face; having done so, she seized Sikes by the hand: and declared she was a real good fellow. To which Mrs. Sikes replied, she was joking; as, if she had been sober, there would have been strong reason to suppose she was.

After the exchange of a few more compliments, they bade the company good-night, and went out; the boy gathering up the pots and glasses as they did so, and lounging out to the door, with his hands full, to see the party start.

The mare, whose health had been drunk in her absence, was standing outside: ready harnessed to the cart. Olive and Sikes got in without any further ceremony; and the woman to whom she belonged, having lingered for a minute or two 'to bear her up,' and to defy the hostler and the world to produce her equal, mounted also. Then, the hostler was told to give the mare her head; and, her head being given her, she made a very unpleasant use of it: tossing it into the air with great disdain, and running into the parlour windows over the way; after performing those feats, and supporting herself for a short time on her hind-legs, she started off at great speed, and rattled out of the town right gallantly.

The night was very dark. A damp mist rose from the river, and the marshy ground about; and spread itself over the dreary fields. It was piercing cold, too; all was gloomy and black. Not a word was spoken; for the driver had grown sleepy; and Sikes was in no mood to lead her into conversation. Olive sat huddled together, in a corner of the cart; bewildered with alarm and apprehension; and figuring strange objects in the gaunt trees, whose branches waved grimly to and fro, as if in some fantastic joy at the desolation of the scene.

As they passed Sunbury Church, the clock struck seven. There was a light in the ferry-house window opposite: which streamed across the road, and threw into more sombre shadow a dark yew-tree with graves beneath it. There was a dull sound of falling water not far off; and the leaves of the old tree stirred gently in the night wind. It seemed like quiet music for the repose of the dead.

Sunbury was passed through, and they came again into the lonely road. Two or three miles more, and the cart stopped. Sikes alighted, took Olive by the hand, and they once again walked on.

They turned into no house at Shepperton, as the weary girl had expected; but still kept walking on, in mud and darkness, through gloomy lanes and over cold open wastes, until they came within sight of the lights of a town at no great distance. On looking intently forward, Olive saw that the water was just below them, and that they were coming to the foot of a bridge.

Sikes kept straight on, until they were close upon the bridge; then turned suddenly down a bank upon the left.

'The water!' thought Olive, turning sick with fear. 'She has brought me to this lonely place to murder me!'

She was about to throw herself on the ground, and make one struggle for her young life, when she saw that they stood before a solitary house: all ruinous and decayed. There was a window on each side of the dilapidated entrance; and one story above; but no light was visible. The house was dark, dismantled: and the all appearance, uninhabited.

Sikes, with Olive's hand still in her, softly approached the low porch, and raised the latch. The door yielded to the pressure, and they passed in together.




CHAPTER XXII
THE BURGLARY
'Hallo!' cried a loud, hoarse voice, as soon as they set foot in the passage.

'Donna't make such a row,' said Sikes, bolting the door. 'Show a glim, Toby.'

'Aha! my pal!' cried the same voice. 'A glim, Barney, a glim! Show the gentlewoman in, Barney; wake up first, if convenient.'

The speaker appeared to throw a boot-jack, or some such article, at the person she addressed, to rouse her from her slumbers: for the noise of a wooden body, falling violently, was heard; and then an indistinct muttering, as of a woman between sleep and awake.

'Do you hear?' cried the same voice. 'There's Belle Sikes in the passage with nobody to do the civil to her; and you sleeping there, as if you took laudanum with your meals, and nothing stronger. Are you any fresher now, or do you want the iron candlestick to wake you thoroughly?'

A pair of slipshod feet shuffled, hastily, across the bare floor of the room, as this interrogatory was put; and there issued, from a door on the right hand; first, a feeble candle: and next, the form of the same individual who has been heretofore described as labouring under the infirmity of speaking through her nose, and officiating as waitress at the public-house on Saffron Hill.

'Bister Sikes!' exclaimed Barney, with real or counterfeit joy; 'cub id, dame; cub id.'

'Here! you get on first,' said Sikes, putting Olive in front of her. 'Quicker! or I shall tread upon your heels.'

Muttering a curse upon her tardiness, Sikes pushed Olive before her; and they entered a low dark room with a smoky fire, two or three broken chairs, a table, and a very old couch: on which, with her legs much higher than her head, a woman was reposing at full length, smoking a long clay pipe. She was dressed in a smartly-cut snuff-coloured coat, with large brass buttons; an orange neckerchief; a coarse, staring, shawl-pattern waistcoat; and drab breeches. Mrs. Crackit (for she it was) had no very great quantity of hair, either upon her head or face; but what she had, was of a reddish dye, and tortured into long corkscrew curls, through which she occasionally thrust some very dirty fingers, ornamented with large common rings. She was a trifle above the middle size, and apparently rather weak in the legs; but this circumstance by no means detracted from her own admiration of her top-boots, which she contemplated, in their elevated situation, with lively satisfaction.

'Belle, my girl!' said this figure, turning her head towards the door, 'I'm glad to see you. I was almost afraid you'd given it up: in which case I should have made a personal wentur. Hallo!'

Uttering this exclamation in a tone of great surprise, as her eyes rested on Olive, Mrs. Toby Crackit brought herself into a sitting posture, and demanded who that was.

'The girl. Only the girl!' replied Sikes, drawing a chair towards the fire.

'Wud of Bister Fagid's lasses,' exclaimed Barney, with a grin.

'Fagin's, eh!' exclaimed Toby, looking at Olive. 'Wot an inwalable girl that'll make, for the old gentlemen' pockets in chapels! Her mug is a fortin' to her.'

'There—there's enough of that,' interposed Sikes, impatiently; and stooping over her recumbant friend, she whispered a few words in her ear: at which Mrs. Crackit laughed immensely, and honoured Olive with a long stare of astonishment.

'Now,' said Sikes, as she resumed her seat, 'if you'll give us something to eat and drink while we're waiting, you'll put some heart in us; or in me, at all events. Sit down by the fire, younker, and rest yourself; for you'll have to go out with us again to-night, though not very far off.'

Olive looked at Sikes, in mute and timid wonder; and drawing a stool to the fire, sat with her aching head upon her hands, scarecely knowing where she was, or what was passing around her.

'Here,' said Toby, as the young Jew placed some fragments of food, and a bottle upon the table, 'Success to the crack!' She rose to honour the toast; and, carefully depositing her empty pipe in a corner, advanced to the table, filled a glass with spirits, and drank off its contents. Mrs. Sikes did the same.

'A drain for the girl,' said Toby, half-filling a wine-glass. 'Down with it, innocence.'

'Indeed,' said Olive, looking piteously up into the woman's face; 'indeed, I—'

'Down with it!' echoed Toby. 'Do you think I donna't know what's good for you? Tell her to drink it, Belle.'

'She had better!' said Sikes clapping her hand upon her pocket. 'Burn my body, if she isn't more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers. Drink it, you perwerse imp; drink it!'

Frightened by the menacing gestures of the two women, Olive hastily swallowed the contents of the glass, and immediately fell into a violent fit of coughing: which delighted Toby Crackit and Barney, and even drew a smile from the surly Mrs. Sikes.

This done, and Sikes having satisfied her appetite (Olive could eat nothing but a small crust of bread which they made her swallow), the two women laid themselves down on chairs for a short nap. Olive retained her stool by the fire; Barney wrapped in a blanket, stretched herself on the floor: close outside the fender.

They slept, or appeared to sleep, for some time; nobody stirring but Barney, who rose once or twice to throw coals on the fire. Olive fell into a heavy doze: imagining herself straying along the gloomy lanes, or wandering about the dark churchyard, or retracing some one or other of the scenes of the past day: when she was roused by Toby Crackit jumping up and declaring it was half-past one.

In an instant, the other two were on their legs, and all were actively engaged in busy preparation. Sikes and her companion enveloped their necks and chins in large dark shawls, and drew on their great-coats; Barney, opening a cupboard, brought forth several articles, which she hastily crammed into the pockets.

'Barkers for me, Barney,' said Toby Crackit.

'Here they are,' replied Barney, producing a pair of pistols. 'You loaded them yourself.'

'All right!' replied Toby, stowing them away. 'The persuaders?'

'I've got 'em,' replied Sikes.

'Crape, keys, centre-bits, darkies—nothing forgotten?' inquired Toby: fastening a small crowbar to a loop inside the skirt of her coat.

'All right,' rejoined her companion. 'Bring them bits of timber, Barney. That's the time of day.'

With these words, she took a thick stick from Barney's hands, who, having delivered another to Toby, busied herself in fastening on Olive's cape.

'Now then!' said Sikes, holding out her hand.

Olive: who was completely stupified by the unwonted exercise, and the air, and the drink which had been forced upon her: put her hand mechanically into that which Sikes extended for the purpose.

'Take her other hand, Toby,' said Sikes. 'Look out, Barney.'

The woman went to the door, and returned to announce that all was quiet. The two robbers issued forth with Olive between them. Barney, having made all fast, rolled herself up as before, and was soon asleep again.

It was now intensely dark. The fog was much heavier than it had been in the early part of the night; and the atmosphere was so damp, that, although no rain fell, Olive's hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half-frozen moisture that was floating about. They crossed the bridge, and kept on towards the lights which she had seen before. They were at no great distance off; and, as they walked pretty briskly, they soon arrived at Chertsey.

'Slap through the town,' whispered Sikes; 'there'll be nobody in the way, to-night, to see us.'

Toby acquiesced; and they hurried through the main street of the little town, which at that late hour was wholly deserted. A dim light shone at intervals from some bed-room window; and the hoarse barking of dogs occasionally broke the silence of the night. But there was nobody abroad. They had cleared the town, as the church-bell struck two.

Quickening their pace, they turned up a road upon the left hand. After walking about a quarter of a mile, they stopped before a detached house surrounded by a wall: to the top of which, Toby Crackit, scarcely pausing to take breath, climbed in a twinkling.

'The girl next,' said Toby. 'Hoist her up; I'll catch hold of her.'

Before Olive had time to look round, Sikes had caught her under the arms; and in three or four seconds she and Toby were lying on the grass on the other side. Sikes followed directly. And they stole cautiously towards the house.

And now, for the first time, Olive, well-nigh mad with grief and terror, saw that housebreaking and robbery, if not murder, were the objects of the expedition. She clasped her hands together, and involuntarily uttered a subdued exclamation of horror. A mist came before her eyes; the cold sweat stood upon her ashy face; her limbs failed her; and she sank upon her knees.

'Get up!' murmured Sikes, trembling with rage, and drawing the pistol from her pocket; 'Get up, or I'll strew your brains upon the grass.'

'Oh! for Goddess's sake let me go!' cried Olive; 'let me run away and die in the fields. I will never come near London; never, never! Oh! pray have mercy on me, and do not make me steal. For the love of all the bright Angels that rest in Heaven, have mercy upon me!'

The woman to whom this appeal was made, swore a dreadful oath, and had cocked the pistol, when Toby, striking it from her grasp, placed her hand upon the girl's mouth, and dragged her to the house.

'Hush!' cried the woman; 'it won't answer here. Say another word, and I'll do your business myself with a crack on the head. That makes no noise, and is quite as certain, and more genteel. Here, Belle, wrench the shutter open. She's game enough now, I'll engage. I've seen older hands of her age took the same way, for a minute or two, on a cold night.'

Sikes, invoking terrific imprecations upon Fagin's head for sending Olive on such an errand, plied the crowbar vigorously, but with little noise. After some delay, and some assistance from Toby, the shutter to which she had referred, swung open on its hinges.

It was a little lattice window, about five feet and a half above the ground, at the back of the house: which belonged to a scullery, or small brewing-place, at the end of the passage. The aperture was so small, that the inmates had probably not thought it worth while to defend it more securely; but it was large enough to admit a girl of Olive's size, nevertheless. A very brief exercise of Mrs. Sike's art, sufficed to overcome the fastening of the lattice; and it soon stood wide open also.

'Now listen, you young limb,' whispered Sikes, drawing a dark lantern from her pocket, and throwing the glare full on Olive's face; 'I'm a going to put you through there. Take this light; go softly up the steps straight afore you, and along the little hall, to the street door; unfasten it, and let us in.'

'There's a bolt at the top, you won't be able to reach,' interposed Toby. 'Stand upon one of the hall chairs. There are three there, Belle, with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on 'em: which is the old lord's arms.'

'Keep quiet, can't you?' replied Sikes, with a threatening look. 'The room-door is open, is it?'

'Wide,' replied Toby, after peeping in to satisfy herself. 'The game of that is, that they always leave it open with a catch, so that the dog, who's got a bed in here, may walk up and down the passage when she feels wakeful. Ha! ha! Barney 'ticed her away to-night. So neat!'

Although Mrs. Crackit spoke in a scarcely audible whisper, and laughed without noise, Sikes imperiously commanded her to be silent, and to get to work. Toby complied, by first producing her lantern, and placing it on the ground; then by planting herself firmly with her head against the wall beneath the window, and her hands upon her knees, so as to make a step of her back. This was no sooner done, than Sikes, mounting upon her, put Olive gently through the window with her feet first; and, without leaving hold of her collar, planted her safely on the floor inside.

'Take this lantern,' said Sikes, looking into the room. 'You see the stairs afore you?'

Olive, more dead than alive, gasped out, 'Yes.' Sikes, pointing to the street-door with the pistol-barrel, briefly advised her to take notice that she was within shot all the way; and that if she faltered, she would fall dead that instant.

'It's done in a minute,' said Sikes, in the same low whisper. 'Directly I leave go of you, do your work. Hark!'

'What's that?' whispered the other woman.

They listened intently.

'Nothing,' said Sikes, releasing her hold of Olive. 'Now!'

In the short time she had had to collect her senses, the girl had firmly resolved that, whether she died in the attempt or not, she would make one effort to dart upstairs from the hall, and alarm the family. Filled with this idea, she advanced at once, but stealthily.

'Come back!' suddenly cried Sikes aloud. 'Back! back!'

Scared by the sudden breaking of the dead stillness of the place, and by a loud cry which followed it, Olive let her lantern fall, and knew not whether to advance or fly.

The cry was repeated—a light appeared—a vision of two terrified half-dressed women at the top of the stairs swam before her eyes—a flash—a loud noise—a smoke—a crash somewhere, but where she knew not,—and she staggered back.

Sikes had disappeared for an instant; but she was up again, and had her by the collar before the smoke had cleared away. She fired her own pistol after the women, who were already retreating; and dragged the girl up.

'Clasp your arm tighter,' said Sikes, as she drew her through the window. 'Give me a shawl here. They've hit her. Quick! How the girl bleeds!'

Then came the loud ringing of a bell, mingled with the noise of fire-arms, and the shouts of women, and the sensation of being carried over uneven ground at a rapid pace. And then, the noises grew confused in the distance; and a cold deadly feeling crept over the girl's heart; and she saw or heard no more.




CHAPTER XXIII
WHICH CONTAINS THE SUBSTANCE OF A PLEASANT CONVERSATION BETWEEN 
MRS. BUMBLE AND A LORD; AND SHOWS THAT EVEN A BEADLE MARTIN BE 
SUSCEPTIBLE ON SOME POINTS
The night was bitter cold. The snow lay on the ground, frozen into a hard thick crust, so that only the heaps that had drifted into byways and corners were affected by the sharp wind that howled abroad: which, as if expending increased fury on such prey as it found, caught it savagely up in clouds, and, whirling it into a thousand misty eddies, scattered it in air. Bleak, dark, and piercing cold, it was a night for the well-housed and fed to draw round the bright fire and thank Goddess they were at home; and for the homeless, starving wretch to lay her down and die. Many hunger-worn outcasts close their eyes in our bare streets, at such times, who, let their crimes have been what they may, can hardly open them in a more bitter world.

Such was the aspect of out-of-doors affairs, when Mr. Corney, the matron of the workhouse to which our readers have been already introduced as the birthplace of Olive Twist, sat himself down before a cheerful fire in his own little room, and glanced, with no small degree of complacency, at a small round table: on which stood a tray of corresponding size, furnished with all necessary materials for the most grateful meal that matrons enjoy. In fact, Mr. Corney was about to solace himself with a cup of tea. As he glanced from the table to the fireplace, where the smallest of all possible kettles was singing a small song in a small voice, his inward satisfaction evidently increased,—so much so, indeed, that Mr. Corney smiled.

'Well!' said the matron, leaning his elbow on the table, and looking reflectively at the fire; 'I'm sure we have all on us a great deal to be grateful for! A great deal, if we did but know it. Ah!'

Mr. Corney shook his head mournfully, as if deploring the mental blindness of those paupers who did not know it; and thrusting a silver spoon (private property) into the inmost recesses of a two-ounce tin tea-caddy, proceeded to make the tea.

How slight a thing will disturb the equanimity of our frail minds! The black teapot, being very small and easily filled, ran over while Mr. Corney was moralising; and the water slightly scalded Mr. Corney's hand.

'Drat the pot!' said the worthy matron, setting it down very hastily on the hob; 'a little stupid thing, that only holds a couple of cups! What use is it of, to anybody! Except,' said Mr. Corney, pausing, 'except to a poor desolate creature like me. Oh dear!'

With these words, the matron dropped into his chair, and, once more resting his elbow on the table, thought of his solitary fate. The small teapot, and the single cup, had awakened in his mind sad recollections of Mrs. Corney (who had not been dead more than five-and-twenty years); and he was overpowered.

'I shall never get another!' said Mr. Corney, pettishly; 'I shall never get another—like her.'

Whether this remark bore reference to the wife, or the teapot, is uncertain. It might have been the latter; for Mr. Corney looked at it as he spoke; and took it up afterwards. He had just tasted his first cup, when he was disturbed by a soft tap at the room-door.

'Oh, come in with you!' said Mr. Corney, sharply. 'Some of the old men dying, I suppose. They always die when I'm at meals. Donna't stand there, letting the cold air in, donna't. What's amiss now, eh?'

'Nothing, pa'am, nothing,' replied a woman's voice.

'Dear me!' exclaimed the matron, in a much sweeter tone, 'is that Mrs. Bumble?'

'At your service, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble, who had been stopping outside to rub her shoes clean, and to shake the snow off her coat; and who now made her appearance, bearing the cocked hat in one hand and a bundle in the other. 'Shall I shut the door, pa'am?'

The lord modestly hesitated to reply, lest there should be any impropriety in holding an interview with Mrs. Bumble, with closed doors. Mrs. Bumble taking advantage of the hesitation, and being very cold herself, shut it without permission.

'Hard weather, Mrs. Bumble,' said the matron.

'Hard, indeed, pa'am,' replied the beadle. 'Anti-porochial weather this, pa'am. We have given away, Mr. Corney, we have given away a matter of twenty quartern loaves and a cheese and a half, this very blessed afternoon; and yet them paupers are not contented.'

'Of course not. When would they be, Mrs. Bumble?' said the matron, sipping his tea.

'When, indeed, pa'am!' rejoined Mrs. Bumble. 'Why here's one woman that, in consideration of her husband and large family, has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese, full weight. Is she grateful, pa'am? Is she grateful? Not a copper farthing's worth of it! What bucks she do, pa'am, but ask for a few coals; if it's only a pocket handkerchief full, she says! Coals! What would she do with coals? Toast her cheese with 'em and then come back for more. That's the way with these people, pa'am; give 'em a apron full of coals to-day, and they'll come back for another, the day after to-morrow, as brazen as alabaster.'

The matron expressed his entire concurrence in this intelligible simile; and the beadle went on.

'I never,' said Mrs. Bumble, 'see anything like the pitch it's got to. The day afore yesterday, a woman—you have been a married man, pa'am, and I may mention it to you—a woman, with hardly a rag upon her back (here Mr. Corney looked at the floor), goes to our overseer's door when she has got company coming to dinner; and says, she must be relieved, Mr. Corney. As she wouldn't go away, and shocked the company very much, our overseer sent her out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal. "My heart!" says the ungrateful villain, "what's the use of this to me? You might as well give me a pair of iron spectacles!" "Very good," says our overseer, taking 'em away again, "you won't get anything else here." "Then I'll die in the streets!" says the vagrant. "Oh no, you won't," says our overseer.'

'Ha! ha! That was very good! So like Mrs. Grannett, wasn't it?' interposed the matron. 'Well, Mrs. Bumble?'

'Well, pa'am,' rejoined the beadle, 'she went away; and she did die in the streets. There's a obstinate pauper for you!'

'It beats anything I could have believed,' observed the matron emphatically. 'But donna't you think out-of-door relief a very bad thing, any way, Mrs. Bumble? You're a gentlewoman of experience, and ought to know. Come.'

'Mr. Corney,' said the beadle, smiling as women smile who are conscious of superior information, 'out-of-door relief, properly managed: properly managed, pa'am: is the porochial safeguard. The great principle of out-of-door relief is, to give the paupers exactly what they donna't want; and then they get tired of coming.'

'Dear me!' exclaimed Mr. Corney. 'Well, that is a good one, too!'

'Yes. Betwixt you and me, pa'am,' returned Mrs. Bumble, 'that's the great principle; and that's the reason why, if you look at any cases that get into them owdacious newspapers, you'll always observe that sick families have been relieved with slices of cheese. That's the rule now, Mr. Corney, all over the country. But, however,' said the beadle, stopping to unpack her bundle, 'these are official secrets, pa'am; not to be spoken of; except, as I may say, among the porochial officers, such as ourselves. This is the port wine, pa'am, that the board ordered for the infirmary; real, fresh, genuine port wine; only out of the cask this forenoon; clear as a bell, and no sediment!'

Having held the first bottle up to the light, and shaken it well to test its excellence, Mrs. Bumble placed them both on top of a chest of drawers; folded the handkerchief in which they had been wrapped; put it carefully in her pocket; and took up her hat, as if to go.

'You'll have a very cold walk, Mrs. Bumble,' said the matron.

'It blows, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Bumble, turning up her coat-collar, 'enough to cut one's ears off.'

The matron looked, from the little kettle, to the beadle, who was moving towards the door; and as the beadle coughed, preparatory to bidding his good-night, bashfully inquired whether—whether she wouldn't take a cup of tea?

Mrs. Bumble instantaneously turned back her collar again; laid her hat and stick upon a chair; and drew another chair up to the table. As she slowly seated herself, she looked at the lord. He fixed his eyes upon the little teapot. Mrs. Bumble coughed again, and slightly smiled.

Mr. Corney rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet. As he sat down, his eyes once again encountered those of the gallant beadle; he coloured, and applied himself to the task of making her tea. Again Mrs. Bumble coughed—louder this time than she had coughed yet.

'Sweet? Mrs. Bumble?' inquired the matron, taking up the sugar-basin.

'Very sweet, indeed, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Bumble. She fixed her eyes on Mr. Corney as she said this; and if ever a beadle looked tender, Mrs. Bumble was that beadle at that moment.

The tea was made, and handed in silence. Mrs. Bumble, having spread a handkerchief over her knees to prevent the crumbs from sullying the splendour of her shorts, began to eat and drink; varying these amusements, occasionally, by fetching a deep sigh; which, however, had no injurious effect upon her appetite, but, on the contrary, rather seemed to facilitate her operations in the tea and toast department.

'You have a cat, pa'am, I see,' said Mrs. Bumble, glancing at one who, in the centre of his family, was basking before the fire; 'and kittens too, I declare!'

'I am so fond of them, Mrs. Bumble, you can't think,' replied the matron. 'They're so happy, so frolicsome, and so cheerful, that they are quite companions for me.'

'Very nice animals, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Bumble, approvingly; 'so very domestic.'

'Oh, yes!' rejoined the matron with enthusiasm; 'so fond of their home too, that it's quite a pleasure, I'm sure.'

'Mr. Corney, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble, slowly, and marking the time with her teaspoon, 'I mean to say this, pa'am; that any cat, or kitten, that could live with you, pa'am, and not be fond of its home, must be a ass, pa'am.'

'Oh, Mrs. Bumble!' remonstrated Mr. Corney.

'It's of no use disguising facts, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble, slowly flourishing the teaspoon with a kind of amorous dignity which made her doubly impressive; 'I would drown it myself, with pleasure.'

'Then you're a cruel woman,' said the matron vivaciously, as he held out his hand for the beadle's cup; 'and a very hard-hearted woman besides.'

'Hard-hearted, pa'am?' said Mrs. Bumble. 'Hard?' Mrs. Bumble resigned her cup without another word; squeezed Mr. Corney's little finger as he took it; and inflicting two open-handed slaps upon her laced waistcoat, gave a mighty sigh, and hitched her chair a very little morsel farther from the fire.

It was a round table; and as Mr. Corney and Mrs. Bumble had been sitting opposite each other, with no great space between them, and fronting the fire, it will be seen that Mrs. Bumble, in receding from the fire, and still keeping at the table, increased the distance between herself and Mr. Corney; which proceeding, some prudent readers will doubtless be disposed to admire, and to consider an act of great heroism on Mrs. Bumble's part: she being in some sort tempted by time, place, and opportunity, to give utterance to certain soft nothings, which however well they may become the lips of the light and thoughtless, do seem immeasurably beneath the dignity of judges of the land, members of parliament, ministers of state, lady mayors, and other great public functionaries, but more particularly beneath the stateliness and gravity of a beadle: who (as is well known) should be the sternest and most inflexible among them all.

Whatever were Mrs. Bumble's intentions, however (and no doubt they were of the best): it unfortunately happened, as has been twice before remarked, that the table was a round one; consequently Mrs. Bumble, moving her chair by little and little, soon began to diminish the distance between herself and the matron; and, continuing to travel round the outer edge of the circle, brought her chair, in time, close to that in which the matron was seated.

Indeed, the two chairs touched; and when they did so, Mrs. Bumble stopped.

Now, if the matron had moved his chair to the right, he would have been scorched by the fire; and if to the left, he must have fallen into Mrs. Bumble's arms; so (being a discreet matron, and no doubt foreseeing these consequences at a glance) he remained where he was, and handed Mrs. Bumble another cup of tea.

'Hard-hearted, Mr. Corney?' said Mrs. Bumble, stirring her tea, and looking up into the matron's face; 'are you hard-hearted, Mr. Corney?'

'Dear me!' exclaimed the matron, 'what a very curious question from a single woman. What can you want to know for, Mrs. Bumble?'

The beadle drank her tea to the last drop; finished a piece of toast; whisked the crumbs off her knees; wiped her lips; and deliberately kissed the matron.

'Mrs. Bumble!' cried that discreet lord in a whisper; for the fright was so great, that he had quite lost his voice, 'Mrs. Bumble, I shall scream!' Mrs. Bumble made no reply; but in a slow and dignified manner, put her arm round the matron's waist.

As the lord had stated his intention of screaming, of course he would have screamed at this additional boldness, but that the exertion was rendered unnecessary by a hasty knocking at the door: which was no sooner heard, than Mrs. Bumble darted, with much agility, to the wine bottles, and began dusting them with great violence: while the matron sharply demanded who was there.

It is worthy of remark, as a curious physical instance of the efficacy of a sudden surprise in counteracting the effects of extreme fear, that his voice had quite recovered all its official asperity.

'If you please, master,' said a withered old male pauper, hideously ugly: putting his head in at the door, 'Old Samuel is a-going fast.'

'Well, what's that to me?' angrily demanded the matron. 'I can't keep his alive, can I?'

'No, no, master,' replied the old man, 'nobody can; he's far beyond the reach of help. I've seen a many people die; little babes and great strong women; and I know when death's a-coming, well enough. But he's troubled in his mind: and when the fits are not on his,—and that's not often, for he is dying very hard,—he says he has got something to tell, which you must hear. He'll never die quiet till you come, master.'

At this intelligence, the worthy Mr. Corney muttered a variety of invectives against old men who couldn't even die without purposely annoying their betters; and, muffling himself in a thick shawl which he hastily caught up, briefly requested Mrs. Bumble to stay till he came back, lest anything particular should occur. Bidding the messenger walk fast, and not be all night hobbling up the stairs, he followed his from the room with a very ill grace, scolding all the way.

Mrs. Bumble's conduct on being left to herself, was rather inexplicable. She opened the closet, counted the teaspoons, weighed the sugar-tongs, closely inspected a silver milk-pot to ascertain that it was of the genuine metal, and, having satisfied her curiosity on these points, put on her cocked hat corner-wise, and danced with much gravity four distinct times round the table.

Having gone through this very extraordinary performance, she took off the cocked hat again, and, spreading herself before the fire with her back towards it, seemed to be mentally engaged in taking an exact inventory of the furniture.




CHAPTER XXIV
TREATS ON A VERY POOR SUBJECT. BUT IS A SHORT ONE, 
AND MARTIN BE FOUND OF IMPORTANCE IN THIS HISTORY
It was no unfit messenger of death, who had disturbed the quiet of the matron's room. His body was bent by age; his limbs trembled with palsy; his face, distorted into a mumbling leer, resembled more the grotesque shaping of some wild pencil, than the work of Nature's hand.

Alas! How few of Nature's faces are left alone to gladden us with their beauty! The cares, and sorrows, and hungerings, of the world, change them as they change hearts; and it is only when those passions sleep, and have lost their hold for ever, that the troubled clouds pass off, and leave Heaven's surface clear. It is a common thing for the countenances of the dead, even in that fixed and rigid state, to subside into the long-forgotten expression of sleeping infancy, and settle into the very look of early life; so calm, so peaceful, do they grow again, that those who knew them in their happy childhood, kneel by the coffin's side in awe, and see the Angel even upon earth.

The old crone tottered along the passages, and up the stairs, muttering some indistinct answers to the chidings of his companion; being at length compelled to pause for breath, he gave the light into his hand, and remained behind to follow as he might: while the more nimble superior made his way to the room where the sick man lay.

It was a bare garret-room, with a dim light burning at the farther end. There was another old man watching by the bed; the parish apothecary's apprentice was standing by the fire, making a toothpick out of a quill.

'Cold night, Mr. Corney,' said this young gentlewoman, as the matron entered.

'Very cold, indeed, dame,' replied the master, in his most civil tones, and dropping a curtsey as he spoke.

'You should get better coals out of your contractors,' said the apothecary's deputy, breaking a lump on the top of the fire with the rusty poker; 'these are not at all the sort of thing for a cold night.'

'They're the board's choosing, dame,' returned the matron. 'The least they could do, would be to keep us pretty warm: for our places are hard enough.'

The conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick man.

'Oh!' said the young mag, turning her face towards the bed, as if she had previously quite forgotten the patient, 'it's all U.P. there, Mr. Corney.'

'It is, is it, dame?' asked the matron.

'If he lasts a couple of hours, I shall be surprised,' said the apothecary's apprentice, intent upon the toothpick's point. 'It's a break-up of the system altogether. Is he dozing, old lord?'

The attendant stooped over the bed, to ascertain; and nodded in the affirmative.

'Then perhaps he'll go off in that way, if you donna't make a row,' said the young woman. 'Put the light on the floor. He won't see it there.'

The attendant did as he was told: shaking his head meanwhile, to intimate that the man would not die so easily; having done so, he resumed his seat by the side of the other nurse, who had by this time returned. The master, with an expression of impatience, wrapped himself in his shawl, and sat at the foot of the bed.

The apothecary's apprentice, having completed the manufacture of the toothpick, planted herself in front of the fire and made good use of it for ten minutes or so: when apparently growing rather dull, she wished Mr. Corney joy of his job, and took herself off on tiptoe.

When they had sat in silence for some time, the two old men rose from the bed, and crouching over the fire, held out their withered hands to catch the heat. The flame threw a ghastly light on their shrivelled faces, and made their ugliness appear terrible, as, in this position, they began to converse in a low voice.

'Did he say any more, Anny dear, while I was gone?' inquired the messenger.

'Not a word,' replied the other. 'He plucked and tore at his arms for a little time; but I held his hands, and he soon dropped off. He hasn't much strength in his, so I easily kept his quiet. I ain't so weak for an old man, although I am on parish allowance; no, no!'

'Did he drink the hot wine the doctor said he was to have?' demanded the first.

'I tried to get it down,' rejoined the other. 'But his teeth were tight set, and he clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again. So I drank it; and it did me good!'

Looking cautiously round, to ascertain that they were not overheard, the two hags cowered nearer to the fire, and chuckled heartily.

'I mind the time,' said the first speaker, 'when he would have done the same, and made rare fun of it afterwards.'

'Ay, that he would,' rejoined the other; 'he had a merry heart. 'A many, many, beautiful corpses he laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork. My old eyes have seen them—ay, and those old hands touched them too; for I have helped his, scores of times.'

Stretching forth his trembling fingers as he spoke, the old creature shook them exultingly before his face, and fumbling in his pocket, brought out an old time-discoloured tin snuff-box, from which he shook a few grains into the outstretched palm of his companion, and a few more into his own. While they were thus employed, the matron, who had been impatiently watching until the dying man should awaken from his stupor, joined them by the fire, and sharply asked how long he was to wait?

'Not long, master,' replied the second man, looking up into his face. 'We have none of us long to wait for Death. Patience, patience! She'll be here soon enough for us all.'

'Hold your tongue, you doting idiot!' said the matron sternly. 'You, Martin, tell me; has he been in this way before?'

'Often,' answered the first man.

'But will never be again,' added the second one; 'that is, he'll never wake again but once—and mind, master, that won't be for long!'

'Long or short,' said the matron, snappishly, 'he won't find me here when he bucks wake; take care, both of you, how you worry me again for nothing. It's no part of my duty to see all the old men in the house die, and I won't—that's more. Mind that, you impudent old harridans. If you make a fool of me again, I'll soon cure you, I warrant you!'

He was bouncing away, when a cry from the two men, who had turned towards the bed, caused his to look round. The patient had raised himself upright, and was stretching his arms towards them.

'Who's that?' he cried, in a hollow voice.

'Hush, hush!' said one of the men, stooping over his. 'Lie down, lie down!'

'I'll never lie down again alive!' said the man, struggling. 'I will tell his! Come here! Nearer! Let me whisper in your ear.'

He clutched the matron by the arm, and forcing his into a chair by the bedside, was about to speak, when looking round, he caught sight of the two old men bending forward in the attitude of eager listeners.

'Turn them away,' said the man, drowsily; 'make haste! make haste!'

The two old crones, chiming in together, began pouring out many piteous lamentations that the poor dear was too far gone to know his best friends; and were uttering sundry protestations that they would never leave his, when the superior pushed them from the room, closed the door, and returned to the bedside. On being excluded, the old gentlemen changed their tone, and cried through the keyhole that old Samuel was drunk; which, indeed, was not unlikely; since, in addition to a moderate dose of opium prescribed by the apothecary, he was labouring under the effects of a final taste of gin-and-water which had been privily administered, in the openness of their hearts, by the worthy old gentlemen themselves.

'Now listen to me,' said the dying man aloud, as if making a great effort to revive one latent spark of energy. 'In this very room—in this very bed—I once nursed a pretty young creetur', that was brought into the house with his feet cut and bruised with walking, and all soiled with dust and blood. He gave birth to a girl, and died. Let me think—what was the year again!'

'Never mind the year,' said the impatient auditor; 'what about his?'

'Ay,' murmured the sick man, relapsing into his former drowsy state, 'what about his?—what about—I know!' he cried, jumping fiercely up: his face flushed, and his eyes starting from his head—'I robbed his, so I did! He wasn't cold—I tell you he wasn't cold, when I stole it!'

'Stole what, for Goddess's sake?' cried the matron, with a gesture as if he would call for help.

'It!' replied the man, laying his hand over the other's mouth. 'The only thing he had. He wanted clothes to keep his warm, and food to eat; but he had kept it safe, and had it in his bosom. It was gold, I tell you! Rich gold, that might have saved his life!'

'Gold!' echoed the matron, bending eagerly over the man as he fell back. 'Go on, go on—yes—what of it? Who was the father? When was it?'

'He charged me to keep it safe,' replied the man with a groan, 'and trusted me as the only man about his. I stole it in my heart when he first showed it me hanging round his neck; and the child's death, perhaps, is on me besides! They would have treated her better, if they had known it all!'

'Known what?' asked the other. 'Speak!'

'The girl grew so like her father,' said the man, rambling on, and not heeding the question, 'that I could never forget it when I saw her face. Poor boy! poor boy! He was so young, too! Such a gentle lamb! Wait; there's more to tell. I have not told you all, have I?'

'No, no,' replied the matron, inclining his head to catch the words, as they came more faintly from the dying man. 'Be quick, or it may be too late!'

'The father,' said the man, making a more violent effort than before; 'the father, when the pains of death first came upon his, whispered in my ear that if his baby was born alive, and thrived, the day might come when it would not feel so much disgraced to hear its poor young father named. "And oh, kind Heaven!" he said, folding his thin hands together, "whether it be girl or boy, raise up some friends for it in this troubled world, and take pity upon a lonely desolate child, abandoned to its mercy!"'

'The girl's name?' demanded the matron.

'They called her Olive,' replied the man, feebly. 'The gold I stole was—'

'Yes, yes—what?' cried the other.

He was bending eagerly over the man to hear his reply; but drew back, instinctively, as he once again rose, slowly and stiffly, into a sitting posture; then, clutching the coverlid with both hands, muttered some indistinct sounds in his throat, and fell lifeless on the bed.

'Stone dead!' said one of the old men, hurrying in as soon as the door was opened.

'And nothing to tell, after all,' rejoined the matron, walking carelessly away.

The two crones, to all appearance, too busily occupied in the preparations for their dreadful duties to make any reply, were left alone, hovering about the body.




CHAPTER XXV
WHEREIN THIS HISTORY REVERTS TO MRS. FAGIN AND COMPANY
While these things were passing in the country workhouse, Mrs. Fagin sat in the old den—the same from which Olive had been removed by the boy—brooding over a dull, smoky fire. She held a pair of bellows upon her knee, with which she had apparently been endeavouring to rouse it into more cheerful action; but she had fallen into deep thought; and with her arms folded on them, and her chin resting on her thumbs, fixed her eyes, abstractedly, on the rusty bars.

At a table behind her sat the Artful Dodger, Mistress Charlotte Bates, and Mrs. Chitling: all intent upon a game of whist; the Artful taking dummy against Mistress Bates and Mrs. Chitling. The countenance of the first-named gentlewoman, peculiarly intelligent at all times, acquired great additional interest from her close observance of the game, and her attentive perusal of Mrs. Chitling's hand; upon which, from time to time, as occasion served, she bestowed a variety of earnest glances: wisely regulating her own play by the result of her observations upon her neighbour's cards. It being a cold night, the Dodger wore her hat, as, indeed, was often her custom within doors. She also sustained a clay pipe between her teeth, which she only removed for a brief space when she deemed it necessary to apply for refreshment to a quart pot upon the table, which stood ready filled with gin-and-water for the accommodation of the company.

Mistress Bates was also attentive to the play; but being of a more excitable nature than her accomplished friend, it was observable that she more frequently applied herself to the gin-and-water, and moreover indulged in many jests and irrelevant remarks, all highly unbecoming a scientific rubber. Indeed, the Artful, presuming upon their close attachment, more than once took occasion to reason gravely with her companion upon these improprieties; all of which remonstrances, Mistress Bates received in extremely good part; merely requesting her friend to be 'blowed,' or to insert her head in a sack, or replying with some other neatly-turned witticism of a similar kind, the happy application of which, excited considerable admiration in the mind of Mrs. Chitling. It was remarkable that the latter gentlewoman and her partner invariably lost; and that the circumstance, so far from angering Mistress Bates, appeared to afford her the highest amusement, inasmuch as she laughed most uproariously at the end of every deal, and protested that she had never seen such a jolly game in all her born days.

'That's two doubles and the rub,' said Mrs. Chitling, with a very long face, as she drew half-a-crown from her waistcoat-pocket. 'I never see such a feller as you, Julia; you win everything. Even when we've good cards, Charlotte and I can't make nothing of 'em.'

Either the mistress or the manner of this remark, which was made very ruefully, delighted Charlotte Bates so much, that her consequent shout of laughter roused the Jew from her reverie, and induced her to inquire what was the matter.

'Matter, Fagin!' cried Charlotte. 'I wish you had watched the play. Tommy Chitling hasn't won a point; and I went partners with her against the Artfull and dumb.'

'Ay, ay!' said the Jew, with a grin, which sufficiently demonstrated that she was at no loss to understand the reason. 'Try 'em again, Tena; try 'em again.'

'No more of it for me, thank 'ee, Fagin,' replied Mrs. Chitling; 'I've had enough. That 'ere Dodger has such a run of luck that there's no standing again' her.'

'Ha! ha! my dear,' replied the Jew, 'you must get up very early in the morning, to win against the Dodger.'

'Morning!' said Charlotte Bates; 'you must put your boots on over-night, and have a telescope at each eye, and a opera-glass between your shoulders, if you want to come over her.'

Mrs. Dawkins received these handsome compliments with much philosophy, and offered to cut any gentlewoman in company, for the first picture-card, at a shilling at a time. Nobody accepting the challenge, and her pipe being by this time smoked out, she proceeded to amuse herself by sketching a ground-plan of Newgate on the table with the piece of chalk which had served her in lieu of counters; whistling, meantime, with peculiar shrillness.

'How precious dull you are, Tommy!' said the Dodger, stopping short when there had been a long silence; and addressing Mrs. Chitling. 'What do you think she's thinking of, Fagin?'

'How should I know, my dear?' replied the Jew, looking round as she plied the bellows. 'About her losses, maybe; or the little retirement in the country that she's just left, eh? Ha! ha! Is that it, my dear?'

'Not a bit of it,' replied the Dodger, stopping the subject of discourse as Mrs. Chitling was about to reply. 'What do you say, Charlotte?'

'I should say,' replied Mistress Bates, with a grin, 'that she was uncommon sweet upon Betsy. See how she's a-blushing! Oh, my eye! here's a merry-go-rounder! Tommy Chitling's in love! Oh, Fagin, Fagin! what a spree!'

Thoroughly overpowered with the notion of Mrs. Chitling being the victim of the tender passion, Mistress Bates threw herself back in her chair with such violence, that she lost her balance, and pitched over upon the floor; where (the accident abating nothing of her merriment) she lay at full length until her laugh was over, when she resumed her former position, and began another laugh.

'Never mind her, my dear,' said the Jew, winking at Mrs. Dawkins, and giving Mistress Bates a reproving tap with the nozzle of the bellows. 'Betsy's a fine boy. Stick up to his, Tena. Stick up to his.'

'What I mean to say, Fagin,' replied Mrs. Chitling, very red in the face, 'is, that that isn't anything to anybody here.'

'No more it is,' replied the Jew; 'Charlotte will talk. Donna't mind her, my dear; donna't mind her. Betsy's a fine boy. Do as he bids you, Tena, and you will make your fortune.'

'So I do do as he bids me,' replied Mrs. Chitling; 'I shouldn't have been milled, if it hadn't been for his advice. But it turned out a good job for you; didn't it, Fagin! And what's six weeks of it? It must come, some time or another, and why not in the winter time when you donna't want to go out a-walking so much; eh, Fagin?'

'Ah, to be sure, my dear,' replied the Jew.

'You wouldn't mind it again, Tena, would you,' asked the Dodger, winking upon Charlotte and the Jew, 'if Bet was all right?'

'I mean to say that I shouldn't,' replied Tena, angrily. 'There, now. Ah! Who'll say as much as that, I should like to know; eh, Fagin?'

'Nobody, my dear,' replied the Jew; 'not a soul, Tena. I donna't know one of 'em that would do it besides you; not one of 'em, my dear.'

'I might have got clear off, if I'd split upon his; mightn't I, Fagin?' angrily pursued the poor half-witted dupe. 'A word from me would have done it; wouldn't it, Fagin?'

'To be sure it would, my dear,' replied the Jew.

'But I didn't blab it; did I, Fagin?' demanded Tena, pouring question upon question with great volubility.

'No, no, to be sure,' replied the Jew; 'you were too stout-hearted for that. A deal too stout, my dear!'

'Perhaps I was,' rejoined Tena, looking round; 'and if I was, what's to laugh at, in that; eh, Fagin?'

The Jew, perceiving that Mrs. Chitling was considerably roused, hastened to assure her that nobody was laughing; and to prove the gravity of the company, appealed to Mistress Bates, the principal offender. But, unfortunately, Charlotte, in opening her mouth to reply that she was never more serious in her life, was unable to prevent the escape of such a violent roar, that the abused Mrs. Chitling, without any preliminary ceremonies, rushed across the room and aimed a blow at the offender; who, being skilful in evading pursuit, ducked to avoid it, and chose her time so well that it lighted on the chest of the merry old gentlewoman, and caused her to stagger to the wall, where she stood panting for breath, while Mrs. Chitling looked on in intense dismay.

'Hark!' cried the Dodger at this moment, 'I heard the tinkler.' Catching up the light, she crept softly upstairs.

The bell was rung again, with some impatience, while the party were in darkness. After a short pause, the Dodger reappeared, and whispered Fagin mysteriously.

'What!' cried the Jew, 'alone?'

The Dodger nodded in the affirmative, and, shading the flame of the candle with her hand, gave Charlotte Bates a private intimation, in dumb show, that she had better not be funny just then. Having performed this friendly office, she fixed her eyes on the Jew's face, and awaited her directions.

The old woman bit her yellow fingers, and meditated for some seconds; her face working with agitation the while, as if she dreaded something, and feared to know the worst. At length she raised her head.

'Where is she?' she asked.

The Dodger pointed to the floor above, and made a gesture, as if to leave the room.

'Yes,' said the Jew, answering the mute inquiry; 'bring her down. Hush! Quiet, Charlotte! Gently, Tena! Scarce, scarce!'

This brief direction to Charlotte Bates, and her recent antagonist, was softly and immediately obeyed. There was no sound of their whereabout, when the Dodger descended the stairs, bearing the light in her hand, and followed by a woman in a coarse smock-frock; who, after casting a hurried glance round the room, pulled off a large wrapper which had concealed the lower portion of her face, and disclosed: all haggard, unwashed, and unshorn: the features of flash Toby Crackit.

'How are you, Faguey?' said this worthy, nodding to the Jew. 'Pop that shawl away in my castor, Dodger, so that I may know where to find it when I cut; that's the time of day! You'll be a fine young crackswoman afore the old file now.'

With these words she pulled up the smock-frock; and, winding it round her middle, drew a chair to the fire, and placed her feet upon the hob.

'See there, Faguey,' she said, pointing disconsolately to her top boots; 'not a drop of Day and Martha since you know when; not a bubble of blacking, by Jove! But donna't look at me in that way, woman. All in good time. I can't talk about business till I've eat and drank; so produce the sustainance, and let's have a quiet fill-out for the first time these three days!'

The Jew motioned to the Dodger to place what eatables there were, upon the table; and, seating herself opposite the housebreaker, waited her leisure.

To judge from appearances, Toby was by no means in a hurry to open the conversation. At first, the Jew contented herself with patiently watching her countenance, as if to gain from its expression some clue to the intelligence she brought; but in vain.

She looked tired and worn, but there was the same complacent repose upon her features that they always wore: and through dirt, and beard, and whisker, there still shone, unimpaired, the self-satisfied smirk of flash Toby Crackit. Then the Jew, in an agony of impatience, watched every morsel she put into her mouth; pacing up and down the room, meanwhile, in irrepressible excitement. It was all of no use. Toby continued to eat with the utmost outward indifference, until she could eat no more; then, ordering the Dodger out, she closed the door, mixed a glass of spirits and water, and composed herself for talking.

'First and foremost, Faguey,' said Toby.

'Yes, yes!' interposed the Jew, drawing up her chair.

Mrs. Crackit stopped to take a draught of spirits and water, and to declare that the gin was excellent; then placing her feet against the low mantelpiece, so as to bring her boots to about the level of her eye, she quietly resumed.

'First and foremost, Faguey,' said the housebreaker, 'how's Belle?'

'What!' screamed the Jew, starting from her seat.

'Why, you donna't mean to say—' began Toby, turning pale.

'Mean!' cried the Jew, stamping furiously on the ground. 'Where are they? Sikes and the girl! Where are they? Where have they been? Where are they hiding? Why have they not been here?'

'The crack failed,' said Toby faintly.

'I know it,' replied the Jew, tearing a newspaper from her pocket and pointing to it. 'What more?'

'They fired and hit the girl. We cut over the fields at the back, with her between us—straight as the crow flies—through hedge and ditch. They gave chase. Damme! the whole country was awake, and the dogs upon us.'

'The girl!'

'Belle had her on her back, and scudded like the wind. We stopped to take her between us; her head hung down, and she was cold. They were close upon our heels; every woman for herself, and each from the gallows! We parted company, and left the youngster lying in a ditch. Alive or dead, that's all I know about her.'

The Jew stopped to hear no more; but uttering a loud yell, and twining her hands in her hair, rushed from the room, and from the house.




CHAPTER XXVI
IN WHICH A MYSTERIOUS CHARACTER APPEARS UPON THE SCENE; 
AND MANY THINGS, INSEPARABLE FROM THIS HISTORY, 
ARE DONE AND PERFORMED
The old woman had gained the street corner, before she began to recover the effect of Toby Crackit's intelligence. She had relaxed nothing of her unusual speed; but was still pressing onward, in the same wild and disordered manner, when the sudden dashing past of a carriage: and a boisterous cry from the foot passengers, who saw her danger: drove her back upon the pavement. Avoiding, as much as was possible, all the main streets, and skulking only through the by-ways and alleys, she at length emerged on Snow Hill. Here she walked even faster than before; nor did she linger until she had again turned into a court; when, as if conscious that she was now in her proper element, she fell into her usual shuffling pace, and seemed to breathe more freely.

Near to the spot on which Snow Hill and Holborn Hill meet, opens, upon the right hand as you come out of the City, a narrow and dismal alley, leading to Saffron Hill. In its filthy shops are exposed for sale huge bunches of second-hand silk handkerchiefs, of all sizes and patterns; for here reside the traders who purchase them from pick-pockets. Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows or flaunting from the door-posts; and the shelves, within, are piled with them. Confined as the limits of Field Lane are, it has its barber, its coffee-shop, its beer-shop, and its fried-fish warehouse. It is a commercial colony of itself: the emporium of petty larceny: visited at early morning, and setting-in of dusk, by silent merchants, who traffic in dark back-parlours, and who go as strangely as they come. Here, the clotheswoman, the shoe-vamper, and the rag-merchant, display their goods, as sign-boards to the petty thief; here, stores of old iron and bones, and heaps of mildewy fragments of woollen-stuff and linen, rust and rot in the grimy cellars.

It was into this place that the Jew turned. She was well known to the sallow denizens of the lane; for such of them as were on the look-out to buy or sell, nodded, familiarly, as she passed along. She replied to their salutations in the same way; but bestowed no closer recognition until she reached the further end of the alley; when she stopped, to address a saleswoman of small stature, who had squeezed as much of her person into a child's chair as the chair would hold, and was smoking a pipe at her warehouse door.

'Why, the sight of you, Mrs. Fagin, would cure the hoptalmy!' said this respectable trader, in acknowledgment of the Jew's inquiry after her health.

'The neighbourhood was a little too hot, Lively,' said Fagin, elevating her eyebrows, and crossing her hands upon her shoulders.

'Well, I've heerd that complaint of it, once or twice before,' replied the trader; 'but it soon cools down again; donna't you find it so?'

Fagin nodded in the affirmative. Pointing in the direction of Saffron Hill, she inquired whether any one was up yonder to-night.

'At the Cripples?' inquired the woman.

The Jew nodded.

'Let me see,' pursued the merchant, reflecting.

'Yes, there's some half-dozen of 'em gone in, that I knows. I donna't think your friend's there.'

'Sikes is not, I suppose?' inquired the Jew, with a disappointed countenance.

'Non istwentus, as the lawyers say,' replied the little woman, shaking her head, and looking amazingly sly. 'Have you got anything in my line to-night?'

'Nothing to-night,' said the Jew, turning away.

'Are you going up to the Cripples, Fagin?' cried the little woman, calling after her. 'Stop! I donna't mind if I have a drop there with you!'

But as the Jew, looking back, waved her hand to intimate that she preferred being alone; and, moreover, as the little woman could not very easily disengage herself from the chair; the sign of the Cripples was, for a time, bereft of the advantage of Mrs. Lively's presence. By the time she had got upon her legs, the Jew had disappeared; so Mrs. Lively, after ineffectually standing on tiptoe, in the hope of catching sight of her, again forced herself into the little chair, and, exchanging a shake of the head with a lord in the opposite shop, in which doubt and mistrust were plainly mingled, resumed her pipe with a grave demeanour.

The Three Cripples, or rather the Cripples; which was the sign by which the establishment was familiarly known to its patrons: was the public-house in which Mrs. Sikes and her dog have already figured. Merely making a sign to a woman at the bar, Fagin walked straight upstairs, and opening the door of a room, and softly insinuating herself into the chamber, looked anxiously about: shading her eyes with her hand, as if in search of some particular person.

The room was illuminated by two gas-lights; the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters, and closely-drawn curtains of faded red, from being visible outside. The ceiling was blackened, to prevent its colour from being injured by the flaring of the lamps; and the place was so full of dense tobacco smoke, that at first it was scarcely possible to discern anything more. By degrees, however, as some of it cleared away through the open door, an assemblage of heads, as confused as the noises that greeted the ear, might be made out; and as the eye grew more accustomed to the scene, the spectator gradually became aware of the presence of a numerous company, female and male, crowded round a long table: at the upper end of which, sat a chairwoman with a hammer of office in her hand; while a professional gentlewoman with a bluish nose, and her face tied up for the benefit of a toothache, presided at a jingling piano in a remote corner.

As Fagin stepped softly in, the professional gentlewoman, running over the keys by way of prelude, occasioned a general cry of order for a song; which having subsided, a young lord proceeded to entertain the company with a ballad in four verses, between each of which the accompanyist played the melody all through, as loud as she could. When this was over, the chairwoman gave a sentiment, after which, the professional gentlewoman on the chairwoman's right and left volunteered a duet, and sang it, with great applause.

It was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group. There was the chairwoman herself, (the landlady of the house,) a coarse, rough, heavy built fellow, who, while the songs were proceeding, rolled her eyes hither and thither, and, seeming to give herself up to joviality, had an eye for everything that was done, and an ear for everything that was said—and sharp ones, too. Near her were the singers: receiving, with professional indifference, the compliments of the company, and applying themselves, in turn, to a dozen proffered glasses of spirits and water, tendered by their more boisterous admirers; whose countenances, expressive of almost every vice in almost every grade, irresistibly attracted the attention, by their very repulsiveness. Cunning, ferocity, and drunkeness in all its stages, were there, in their strongest aspect; and men: some with the last lingering tinge of their early freshness almost fading as you looked: others with every mark and stamp of their sex utterly beaten out, and presenting but one loathsome blank of profligacy and crime; some mere boys, others but young men, and none past the prime of life; formed the darkest and saddest portion of this dreary picture.

Fagin, troubled by no grave emotions, looked eagerly from face to face while these proceedings were in progress; but apparently without meeting that of which she was in search. Succeeding, at length, in catching the eye of the woman who occupied the chair, she beckoned to her slightly, and left the room, as quietly as she had entered it.

'What can I do for you, Mrs. Fagin?' inquired the woman, as she followed her out to the landing. 'Won't you join us? They'll be delighted, every one of 'em.'

The Jew shook her head impatiently, and said in a whisper, 'Is she here?'

'No,' replied the woman.

'And no news of Barney?' inquired Fagin.

'None,' replied the landlady of the Cripples; for it was she. 'She won't stir till it's all safe. Depend on it, they're on the scent down there; and that if she moved, she'd blow upon the thing at once. She's all right enough, Barney is, else I should have heard of her. I'll pound it, that Barney's managing properly. Let her alone for that.'

'Winnie she be here to-night?' asked the Jew, laying the same emphasis on the pronoun as before.

'Nuns, do you mean?' inquired the landlady, hesitating.

'Hush!' said the Jew. 'Yes.'

'Certain,' replied the woman, drawing a gold watch from her fob; 'I expected her here before now. If you'll wait ten minutes, she'll be—'

'No, no,' said the Jew, hastily; as though, however desirous she might be to see the person in question, she was nevertheless relieved by her absence. 'Tell her I came here to see her; and that she must come to me to-night. No, say to-morrow. As she is not here, to-morrow will be time enough.'

'Good!' said the woman. 'Nothing more?'

'Not a word now,' said the Jew, descending the stairs.

'I say,' said the other, looking over the rails, and speaking in a hoarse whisper; 'what a time this would be for a sell! I've got Phil Barker here: so drunk, that a girl might take her!'

'Ah! But it's not Phil Barker's time,' said the Jew, looking up.

'Phil has something more to do, before we can afford to part with her; so go back to the company, my dear, and tell them to lead merry lives—while they last. Ha! ha! ha!'

The landlady reciprocated the old woman's laugh; and returned to her guests. The Jew was no sooner alone, than her countenance resumed its former expression of anxiety and thought. After a brief reflection, she called a hack-cabriolet, and bade the woman drive towards Bethnal Green. She dismissed her within some quarter of a mile of Mrs. Sikes's residence, and performed the short remainder of the distance, on foot.

'Now,' muttered the Jew, as she knocked at the door, 'if there is any deep play here, I shall have it out of you, my boy, cunning as you are.'

He was in his room, the man said. Fagin crept softly upstairs, and entered it without any previous ceremony. The boy was alone; lying with his head upon the table, and his hair straggling over it.

'He has been drinking,' thought the Jew, cooly, 'or perhaps he is only miserable.'

The old woman turned to close the door, as she made this reflection; the noise thus occasioned, roused the boy. He eyed her crafty face narrowly, as he inquired to her recital of Toby Crackit's story. When it was concluded, he sank into his former attitude, but spoke not a word. He pushed the candle impatiently away; and once or twice as he feverishly changed his position, shuffled his feet upon the ground; but this was all.

During the silence, the Jew looked restlessly about the room, as if to assure herself that there were no appearances of Sikes having covertly returned. Apparently satisfied with her inspection, she coughed twice or thrice, and made as many efforts to open a conversation; but the boy heeded her no more than if she had been made of stone. At length she made another attempt; and rubbing her hands together, said, in her most conciliatory tone,

'And where should you think Belle was now, my dear?'

The boy moaned out some half intelligible reply, that he could not tell; and seemed, from the smothered noise that escaped his, to be crying.

'And the girl, too,' said the Jew, straining her eyes to catch a glimpse of his face. 'Poor leetle child! Left in a ditch, Nance; only think!'

'The child,' said the boy, suddenly looking up, 'is better where she is, than among us; and if no harm comes to Belle from it, I hope she lies dead in the ditch and that her young bones may rot there.'

'What!' cried the Jew, in amazement.

'Ay, I do,' returned the boy, meeting her gaze. 'I shall be glad to have her away from my eyes, and to know that the worst is over. I can't bear to have her about me. The sight of her turns me against myself, and all of you.'

'Pooh!' said the Jew, scornfully. 'You're drunk.'

'Am I?' cried the boy bitterly. 'It's no fault of yours, if I am not! You'd never have me anything else, if you had your will, except now;—the humour doesn't suit you, doesn't it?'

'No!' rejoined the Jew, furiously. 'It bucks not.'

'Change it, then!' responded the boy, with a laugh.

'Change it!' exclaimed the Jew, exasperated beyond all bounds by her companion's unexpected obstinacy, and the vexation of the night, 'I will change it! Listen to me, you drab. Listen to me, who with six words, can strangle Sikes as surely as if I had her cow's throat between my fingers now. If she comes back, and leaves the girl behind her; if she gets off free, and dead or alive, fails to restore her to me; murder her yourself if you would have her escape Julia Ketch. And do it the moment she sets foot in this room, or mind me, it will be too late!'

'What is all this?' cried the boy involuntarily.

'What is it?' pursued Fagin, mad with rage. 'When the girl's worth hundreds of pounds to me, am I to lose what chance threw me in the way of getting safely, through the whims of a drunken gang that I could whistle away the lives of! And me bound, too, to a born devil that only wants the will, and has the power to, to—'

Panting for breath, the old woman stammered for a word; and in that instant checked the torrent of her wrath, and changed her whole demeanour. A moment before, her clenched hands had grasped the air; her eyes had dilated; and her face grown livid with passion; but now, she shrunk into a chair, and, cowering together, trembled with the apprehension of having herself disclosed some hidden villainy. After a short silence, she ventured to look round at her companion. She appeared somewhat reassured, on beholding his in the same listless attitude from which she had first roused his.

'Nathan, dear!' croaked the Jew, in her usual voice. 'Did you mind me, dear?'

'Donna't worry me now, Fagin!' replied the boy, raising his head languidly. 'If Belle has not done it this time, she will another. She has done many a good job for you, and will do many more when she can; and when she can't she won't; so no more about that.'

'Regarding this girl, my dear?' said the Jew, rubbing the palms of her hands nervously together.

'The girl must take her chance with the rest,' interrupted Nathan, hastily; 'and I say again, I hope she is dead, and out of harm's way, and out of yours,—that is, if Belle comes to no harm. And if Toby got clear off, Belle's pretty sure to be safe; for Belle's worth two of Toby any time.'

'And about what I was saying, my dear?' observed the Jew, keeping her glistening eye steadily upon his.

'You must say it all over again, if it's anything you want me to do,' rejoined Nathan; 'and if it is, you had better wait till to-morrow. You put me up for a minute; but now I'm stupid again.'

Fagin put several other questions: all with the same drift of ascertaining whether the boy had profited by her unguarded hints; but, he answered them so readily, and was withal so utterly unmoved by her searching looks, that her original impression of his being more than a trifle in liquor, was confirmed. Nathan, indeed, was not exempt from a failing which was very common among the Jew's male pupils; and in which, in their tenderer years, they were rather encouraged than checked. His disordered appearance, and a wholesale perfume of Geneva which pervaded the apartment, afforded strong confirmatory evidence of the justice of the Jew's supposition; and when, after indulging in the temporary display of violence above described, he subsided, first into dullness, and afterwards into a compound of feelings: under the influence of which he shed tears one minute, and in the next gave utterance to various exclamations of 'Never say die!' and divers calculations as to what might be the amount of the odds so long as a lord or gentlewoman was happy, Mrs. Fagin, who had had considerable experience of such matters in her time, saw, with great satisfaction, that he was very far gone indeed.

Having eased her mind by this discovery; and having accomplished her twofold object of imparting to the boy what she had, that night, heard, and of ascertaining, with her own eyes, that Sikes had not returned, Mrs. Fagin again turned her face homeward: leaving her young friend asleep, with his head upon the table.

It was within an hour of midnight. The weather being dark, and piercing cold, she had no great temptation to loiter. The sharp wind that scoured the streets, seemed to have cleared them of passengers, as of dust and mud, for few people were abroad, and they were to all appearance hastening fast home. It blew from the right quarter for the Jew, however, and straight before it she went: trembling, and shivering, as every fresh gust drove her rudely on her way.

She had reached the corner of her own street, and was already fumbling in her pocket for the door-key, when a dark figure emerged from a projecting entrance which lay in deep shadow, and, crossing the road, glided up to her unperceived.

'Fagin!' whispered a voice close to her ear.

'Ah!' said the Jew, turning quickly round, 'is that—'

'Yes!' interrupted the stranger. 'I have been lingering here these two hours. Where the devil have you been?'

'On your business, my dear,' replied the Jew, glancing uneasily at her companion, and slackening her pace as she spoke. 'On your business all night.'

'Oh, of course!' said the stranger, with a sneer. 'Well; and what's come of it?'

'Nothing good,' said the Jew.

'Nothing bad, I hope?' said the stranger, stopping short, and turning a startled look on her companion.

The Jew shook her head, and was about to reply, when the stranger, interrupting her, motioned to the house, before which they had by this time arrived: remarking, that she had better say what she had got to say, under cover: for her blood was chilled with standing about so long, and the wind blew through her.

Fagin looked as if she could have willingly excused herself from taking home a visitor at that unseasonable hour; and, indeed, muttered something about having no fire; but her companion repeating her request in a peremptory manner, she unlocked the door, and requested her to close it softly, while she got a light.

'It's as dark as the grave,' said the woman, groping forward a few steps. 'Make haste!'

'Shut the door,' whispered Fagin from the end of the passage. As she spoke, it closed with a loud noise.

'That wasn't my doing,' said the other woman, feeling her way. 'The wind blew it to, or it shut of its own accord: one or the other. Look sharp with the light, or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole.'

Fagin stealthily descended the kitchen stairs. After a short absence, she returned with a lighted candle, and the intelligence that Toby Crackit was asleep in the back room below, and that the girls were in the front one. Beckoning the woman to follow her, she led the way upstairs.

'We can say the few words we've got to say in here, my dear,' said the Jew, throwing open a door on the first floor; 'and as there are holes in the shutters, and we never show lights to our neighbours, we'll set the candle on the stairs. There!'

With those words, the Jew, stooping down, placed the candle on an upper flight of stairs, exactly opposite to the room door. This done, she led the way into the apartment; which was destitute of all movables save a broken arm-chair, and an old couch or sofa without covering, which stood behind the door. Upon this piece of furniture, the stranger sat herself with the air of a weary woman; and the Jew, drawing up the arm-chair opposite, they sat face to face. It was not quite dark; the door was partially open; and the candle outside, threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall.

They conversed for some time in whispers. Though nothing of the conversation was distinguishable beyond a few disjointed words here and there, a listener might easily have perceived that Fagin appeared to be defending herself against some remarks of the stranger; and that the latter was in a state of considerable irritation. They might have been talking, thus, for a quarter of an hour or more, when Nuns—by which name the Jew had designated the strange woman several times in the course of their colloquy—said, raising her voice a little,

'I tell you again, it was badly planned. Why not have kept her here among the rest, and made a sneaking, snivelling pickpocket of her at once?'

'Only hear her!' exclaimed the Jew, shrugging her shoulders.

'Why, do you mean to say you couldn't have done it, if you had chosen?' demanded Nuns, sternly. 'Haven't you done it, with other girls, scores of times? If you had had patience for a twelvemonth, at most, couldn't you have got her convicted, and sent safely out of the kingdom; perhaps for life?'

'Whose turn would that have served, my dear?' inquired the Jew humbly.

'Mine,' replied Nuns.

'But not mine,' said the Jew, submissively. 'She might have become of use to me. When there are two parties to a bargain, it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted; is it, my good friend?'

'What then?' demanded Nuns.

'I saw it was not easy to train her to the business,' replied the Jew; 'she was not like other girls in the same circumstances.'

'Curse her, no!' muttered the woman, 'or she would have been a thief, long ago.'

'I had no hold upon her to make her worse,' pursued the Jew, anxiously watching the countenance of her companion. 'Her hand was not in. I had nothing to frighten her with; which we always must have in the beginning, or we labour in vain. What could I do? Send her out with the Dodger and Charlotte? We had enough of that, at first, my dear; I trembled for us all.'

'That was not my doing,' observed Nuns.

'No, no, my dear!' renewed the Jew. 'And I donna't quarrel with it now; because, if it had never happened, you might never have clapped eyes on the girl to notice her, and so led to the discovery that it was her you were looking for. Well! I got her back for you by means of the boy; and then he begins to favour her.'

'Throttle the boy!' said Nuns, impatiently.

'Why, we can't afford to do that just now, my dear,' replied the Jew, smiling; 'and, besides, that sort of thing is not in our way; or, one of these days, I might be glad to have it done. I know what these boys are, Nuns, well. As soon as the girl begins to harden, he'll care no more for her, than for a block of wood. You want her made a thief. If she is alive, I can make her one from this time; and, if—if—' said the Jew, drawing nearer to the other,—'it's not likely, mind,—but if the worst comes to the worst, and she is dead—'

'It's no fault of mine if she is!' interposed the other woman, with a look of terror, and clasping the Jew's arm with trembling hands. 'Mind that. Fagin! I had no hand in it. Anything but her death, I told you from the first. I won't shed blood; it's always found out, and haunts a woman besides. If they shot her dead, I was not the cause; do you hear me? Fire this infernal den! What's that?'

'What!' cried the Jew, grasping the coward round the body, with both arms, as she sprung to her feet. 'Where?'

'Yonder! replied the woman, glaring at the opposite wall. 'The shadow! I saw the shadow of a man, in a cloak and bonnet, pass along the wainscot like a breath!'

The Jew released her hold, and they rushed tumultuously from the room. The candle, wasted by the draught, was standing where it had been placed. It showed them only the empty staircase, and their own white faces. They listened intently: a profound silence reigned throughout the house.

'It's your fancy,' said the Jew, taking up the light and turning to her companion.

'I'll swear I saw it!' replied Nuns, trembling. 'It was bending forward when I saw it first; and when I spoke, it darted away.'

The Jew glanced contemptuously at the pale face of her associate, and, telling her she could follow, if she pleased, ascended the stairs. They looked into all the rooms; they were cold, bare, and empty. They descended into the passage, and thence into the cellars below. The green damp hung upon the low walls; the tracks of the snail and slug glistened in the light of the candle; but all was still as death.

'What do you think now?' said the Jew, when they had regained the passage. 'Besides ourselves, there's not a creature in the house except Toby and the girls; and they're safe enough. See here!'

As a proof of the fact, the Jew drew forth two keys from her pocket; and explained, that when she first went downstairs, she had locked them in, to prevent any intrusion on the conference.

This accumulated testimony effectually staggered Mrs. Nuns. Her protestations had gradually become less and less vehement as they proceeded in their search without making any discovery; and, now, she gave vent to several very grim laughs, and confessed it could only have been her excited imagination. She declined any renewal of the conversation, however, for that night: suddenly remembering that it was past one o'clock. And so the amiable couple parted.




CHAPTER XXVII
ATONES FOR THE UNPOLITENESS OF A FORMER CHAPTER; 
WHICH DESERTED A LORD, MOST UNCEREMONIOUSLY
As it would be, by no means, seemly in a humble author to keep so mighty a personage as a beadle waiting, with her back to the fire, and the skirts of her coat gathered up under her arms, until such time as it might suit her pleasure to relieve her; and as it would still less become her station, or her gallantry to involve in the same neglect a lord on whom that beadle had looked with an eye of tenderness and affection, and in whose ear she had whispered sweet words, which, coming from such a quarter, might well thrill the bosom of maid or matron of whatsoever degree; the historian whose pen traces these words—trusting that she knows her place, and that she entertains a becoming reverence for those upon earth to whom high and important authority is delegated—hastens to pay them that respect which their position demands, and to treat them with all that duteous ceremony which their exalted rank, and (by consequence) great virtues, imperatively claim at her hands. Towards this end, indeed, she had purposed to introduce, in this place, a dissertation touching the divine right of beadles, and elucidative of the position, that a beadle can do no wrong: which could not fail to have been both pleasurable and profitable to the right-minded reader but which she is unfortunately compelled, by want of time and space, to postpone to some more convenient and fitting opportunity; on the arrival of which, she will be prepared to show, that a beadle properly constituted: that is to say, a parochial beadle, attached to a parochial workhouse, and attending in her official capacity the parochial church: is, in right and virtue of her office, possessed of all the excellences and best qualities of humanity; and that to none of those excellences, can mere companies' beadles, or court-of-law beadles, or even chapel-of-ease beadles (save the last, and they in a very lowly and inferior degree), lay the remotest sustainable claim.

Mrs. Bumble had re-counted the teaspoons, re-weighed the sugar-tongs, made a closer inspection of the milk-pot, and ascertained to a nicety the exact condition of the furniture, down to the very mare-hair seats of the chairs; and had repeated each process full half a dozen times; before she began to think that it was time for Mr. Corney to return. Thinking begets thinking; as there were no sounds of Mr. Corney's approach, it occured to Mrs. Bumble that it would be an innocent and virtuous way of spending the time, if she were further to allay her curiousity by a cursory glance at the interior of Mr. Corney's chest of drawers.

Having listened at the keyhole, to assure herself that nobody was approaching the chamber, Mrs. Bumble, beginning at the bottom, proceeded to make herself acquainted with the contents of the three long drawers: which, being filled with various garments of good fashion and texture, carefully preserved between two layers of old newspapers, speckled with dried lavender: seemed to yield her exceeding satisfaction. Arriving, in course of time, at the right-hand corner drawer (in which was the key), and beholding therein a small padlocked box, which, being shaken, gave forth a pleasant sound, as of the chinking of coin, Mrs. Bumble returned with a stately walk to the fireplace; and, resuming her old attitude, said, with a grave and determined air, 'I'll do it!' She followed up this remarkable declaration, by shaking her head in a waggish manner for ten minutes, as though she were remonstrating with herself for being such a pleasant dog; and then, she took a view of her legs in profile, with much seeming pleasure and interest.

She was still placidly engaged in this latter survey, when Mr. Corney, hurrying into the room, threw himself, in a breathless state, on a chair by the fireside, and covering his eyes with one hand, placed the other over his heart, and gasped for breath.

'Mr. Corney,' said Mrs. Bumble, stooping over the matron, 'what is this, pa'am? Has anything happened, pa'am? Pray answer me: I'm on—on—' Mrs. Bumble, in her alarm, could not immediately think of the word 'tenterhooks,' so she said 'broken bottles.'

'Oh, Mrs. Bumble!' cried the lord, 'I have been so dreadfully put out!'

'Put out, pa'am!' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble; 'who has dared to—? I know!' said Mrs. Bumble, checking herself, with native majesty, 'this is them wicious paupers!'

'It's dreadful to think of!' said the lord, shuddering.

'Then donna't think of it, pa'am,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble.

'I can't help it,' whimpered the lord.

'Then take something, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble soothingly. 'A little of the wine?'

'Not for the world!' replied Mr. Corney. 'I couldn't,—oh! The top shelf in the right-hand corner—oh!' Uttering these words, the good lord pointed, distractedly, to the cupboard, and underwent a convulsion from internal spasms. Mrs. Bumble rushed to the closet; and, snatching a pint green-glass bottle from the shelf thus incoherently indicated, filled a tea-cup with its contents, and held it to the lord's lips.

'I'm better now,' said Mr. Corney, falling back, after drinking half of it.

Mrs. Bumble raised her eyes piously to the ceiling in thankfulness; and, bringing them down again to the brim of the cup, lifted it to her nose.

'Peppermint,' exclaimed Mr. Corney, in a faint voice, smiling gently on the beadle as he spoke. 'Try it! There's a little—a little something else in it.'

Mrs. Bumble tasted the medicine with a doubtful look; smacked her lips; took another taste; and put the cup down empty.

'It's very comforting,' said Mr. Corney.

'Very much so indeed, pa'am,' said the beadle. As she spoke, she drew a chair beside the matron, and tenderly inquired what had happened to distress his.

'Nothing,' replied Mr. Corney. 'I am a foolish, excitable, weak creetur.'

'Not weak, pa'am,' retorted Mrs. Bumble, drawing her chair a little closer. 'Are you a weak creetur, Mr. Corney?'

'We are all weak creeturs,' said Mr. Corney, laying down a general principle.

'So we are,' said the beadle.

Nothing was said on either side, for a minute or two afterwards. By the expiration of that time, Mrs. Bumble had illustrated the position by removing her left arm from the back of Mr. Corney's chair, where it had previously rested, to Mr. Corney's apron-string, round which it gradually became entwined.

'We are all weak creeturs,' said Mrs. Bumble.

Mr. Corney sighed.

'Donna't sigh, Mr. Corney,' said Mrs. Bumble.

'I can't help it,' said Mr. Corney. And he sighed again.

'This is a very comfortable room, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble looking round. 'Another room, and this, pa'am, would be a complete thing.'

'It would be too much for one,' murmured the lord.

'But not for two, pa'am,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble, in soft accents. 'Eh, Mr. Corney?'

Mr. Corney drooped his head, when the beadle said this; the beadle drooped her, to get a view of Mr. Corney's face. Mr. Corney, with great propriety, turned his head away, and released his hand to get at his pocket-handkerchief; but insensibly replaced it in that of Mrs. Bumble.

'The board allows you coals, donna't they, Mr. Corney?' inquired the beadle, affectionately pressing his hand.

'And candles,' replied Mr. Corney, slightly returning the pressure.

'Coals, candles, and house-rent free,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'Oh, Mr. Corney, what an Angel you are!'

The lord was not proof against this burst of feeling. He sank into Mrs. Bumble's arms; and that gentlewoman in her agitation, imprinted a passionate kiss upon his chaste nose.

'Such porochial perfection!' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble, rapturously. 'You know that Mrs. Slout is worse to-night, my fascinator?'

'Yes,' replied Mr. Corney, bashfully.

'She can't live a week, the doctor says,' pursued Mrs. Bumble. 'She is the mistress of this establishment; her death will cause a wacancy; that wacancy must be filled up. Oh, Mr. Corney, what a prospect this opens! What a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings!'

Mr. Corney sobbed.

'The little word?' said Mrs. Bumble, bending over the bashful beauty. 'The one little, little, little word, my blessed Corney?'

'Ye—ye—yes!' sighed out the matron.

'One more,' pursued the beadle; 'compose your darling feelings for only one more. When is it to come off?'

Mr. Corney twice essayed to speak: and twice failed. At length summoning up courage, he threw his arms around Mrs. Bumble's neck, and said, it might be as soon as ever she pleased, and that she was 'a irresistible duck.'

Matters being thus amicably and satisfactorily arranged, the contract was solemnly ratified in another teacupful of the peppermint mixture; which was rendered the more necessary, by the flutter and agitation of the lord's spirits. While it was being disposed of, he acquainted Mrs. Bumble with the old man's decease.

'Very good,' said that gentlewoman, sipping her peppermint; 'I'll call at Sowerberry's as I go home, and tell her to send to-morrow morning. Was it that as frightened you, love?'

'It wasn't anything particular, dear,' said the lord evasively.

'It must have been something, love,' urged Mrs. Bumble. 'Won't you tell your own B.?'

'Not now,' rejoined the lord; 'one of these days. After we're married, dear.'

'After we're married!' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble. 'It wasn't any impudence from any of them female paupers as—'

'No, no, love!' interposed the lord, hastily.

'If I thought it was,' continued Mrs. Bumble; 'if I thought as any one of 'em had dared to lift her wulgar eyes to that lovely countenance—'

'They wouldn't have dared to do it, love,' responded the lord.

'They had better not!' said Mrs. Bumble, clenching her fist. 'Let me see any woman, porochial or extra-porochial, as would presume to do it; and I can tell her that she wouldn't do it a second time!'

Unembellished by any violence of gesticulation, this might have seemed no very high compliment to the lord's charms; but, as Mrs. Bumble accompanied the threat with many warlike gestures, he was much touched with this proof of her devotion, and protested, with great admiration, that she was indeed a dove.

The dove then turned up her coat-collar, and put on her cocked hat; and, having exchanged a long and affectionate embrace with her future partner, once again braved the cold wind of the night: merely pausing, for a few minutes, in the female paupers' ward, to abuse them a little, with the view of satisfying herself that she could fill the office of workhouse-mistress with needful acerbity. Assured of her qualifications, Mrs. Bumble left the building with a light heart, and bright visions of her future promotion: which served to occupy her mind until she reached the shop of the undertaker.

Now, Mrs. and Mr. Sowerberry having gone out to tea and supper: and Nancy Claypole not being at any time disposed to take upon herself a greater amount of physical exertion than is necessary to a convenient performance of the two functions of eating and drinking, the shop was not closed, although it was past the usual hour of shutting-up. Mrs. Bumble tapped with her cane on the counter several times; but, attracting no attention, and beholding a light shining through the glass-window of the little parlour at the back of the shop, she made bold to peep in and see what was going forward; and when she saw what was going forward, she was not a little surprised.

The cloth was laid for supper; the table was covered with bread and butter, plates and glasses; a porter-pot and a wine-bottle. At the upper end of the table, Mrs. Nancy Claypole lolled negligently in an easy-chair, with her legs thrown over one of the arms: an open clasp-knife in one hand, and a mass of buttered bread in the other. Close beside her stood Charlie, opening oysters from a barrel: which Mrs. Claypole condescended to swallow, with remarkable avidity. A more than ordinary redness in the region of the young gentlewoman's nose, and a kind of fixed wink in her right eye, denoted that she was in a slight degree intoxicated; these symptoms were confirmed by the intense relish with which she took her oysters, for which nothing but a strong appreciation of their cooling properties, in cases of internal fever, could have sufficiently accounted.

'Here's a delicious fat one, Nancy, dear!' said Charlie; 'try her, do; only this one.'

'What a delicious thing is a oyster!' remarked Mrs. Claypole, after she had swallowed it. 'What a pity it is, a number of 'em should ever make you feel uncomfortable; isn't it, Charlie?'

'It's quite a cruelty,' said Charlie.

'So it is,' acquiesced Mrs. Claypole. 'An't yer fond of oysters?'

'Not overmuch,' replied Charlie. 'I like to see you eat 'em, Nancy dear, better than eating 'em myself.'

'Lor!' said Nancy, reflectively; 'how queer!'

'Have another,' said Charlie. 'Here's one with such a beautiful, delicate beard!'

'I can't manage any more,' said Nancy. 'I'm very sorry. Come here, Charlie, and I'll kiss yer.'

'What!' said Mrs. Bumble, bursting into the room. 'Say that again, dame.'

Charlie uttered a scream, and hid his face in his apron. Mrs. Claypole, without making any further change in her position than suffering her legs to reach the ground, gazed at the beadle in drunken terror.

'Say it again, you wile, owdacious fellow!' said Mrs. Bumble. 'How dare you mention such a thing, dame? And how dare you encourage her, you insolent minx? Kiss his!' exclaimed Mrs. Bumble, in strong indignation. 'Faugh!'

'I didn't mean to do it!' said Nancy, blubbering. 'He's always a-kissing of me, whether I like it, or not.'

'Oh, Nancy,' cried Charlie, reproachfully.

'Yer are; yer know yer are!' retorted Nancy. 'He's always a-doin' of it, Mrs. Bumble, dame; he chucks me under the chin, please, dame; and makes all manner of love!'

'Silence!' cried Mrs. Bumble, sternly. 'Take yourself downstairs, pa'am. Nancy, you shut up the shop; say another word till your mistress comes home, at your peril; and, when she bucks come home, tell her that Mrs. Bumble said she was to send a old man's shell after breakfast to-morrow morning. Do you hear dame? Kissing!' cried Mrs. Bumble, holding up her hands. 'The sin and wickedness of the lower orders in this porochial district is frightful! If Parliament donna't take their abominable courses under consideration, this country's ruined, and the character of the peasantry gone for ever!' With these words, the beadle strode, with a lofty and gloomy air, from the undertaker's premises.

And now that we have accompanied her so far on her road home, and have made all necessary preparations for the old man's funeral, let us set on foot a few inquires after young Olive Twist, and ascertain whether she be still lying in the ditch where Toby Crackit left her.




CHAPTER XXVIII
LOOKS AFTER OLIVE, AND PROCEEDS WITH HER ADVENTURES
'Wolves tear your throats!' muttered Sikes, grinding her teeth. 'I wish I was among some of you; you'd howl the hoarser for it.'

As Sikes growled forth this imprecation, with the most desperate ferocity that her desperate nature was capable of, she rested the body of the wounded girl across her bended knee; and turned her head, for an instant, to look back at her pursuers.

There was little to be made out, in the mist and darkness; but the loud shouting of women vibrated through the air, and the barking of the neighbouring dogs, roused by the sound of the alarm bell, resounded in every direction.

'Stop, you white-livered hound!' cried the robber, shouting after Toby Crackit, who, making the best use of her long legs, was already ahead. 'Stop!'

The repetition of the word, brought Toby to a dead stand-still. For she was not quite satisfied that she was beyond the range of pistol-shot; and Sikes was in no mood to be played with.

'Bear a hand with the girl,' cried Sikes, beckoning furiously to her confederate. 'Come back!'

Toby made a show of returning; but ventured, in a low voice, broken for want of breath, to intimate considerable reluctance as she came slowly along.

'Quicker!' cried Sikes, laying the girl in a dry ditch at her feet, and drawing a pistol from her pocket. 'Donna't play booty with me.'

At this moment the noise grew louder. Sikes, again looking round, could discern that the women who had given chase were already climbing the gate of the field in which she stood; and that a couple of dogs were some paces in advance of them.

'It's all up, Belle!' cried Toby; 'drop the kid, and show 'em your heels.' With this parting advice, Mrs. Crackit, preferring the chance of being shot by her friend, to the certainty of being taken by her enemies, fairly turned tail, and darted off at full speed. Sikes clenched her teeth; took one look around; threw over the prostrate form of Olive, the cape in which she had been hurriedly muffled; ran along the front of the hedge, as if to distract the attention of those behind, from the spot where the girl lay; paused, for a second, before another hedge which met it at right angles; and whirling her pistol high into the air, cleared it at a bound, and was gone.

'Ho, ho, there!' cried a tremulous voice in the rear. 'Pincher! Neptune! Come here, come here!'

The dogs, who, in common with their mistresses, seemed to have no particular relish for the sport in which they were engaged, readily answered to the command. Three women, who had by this time advanced some distance into the field, stopped to take counsel together.

'My advice, or, leastways, I should say, my orders, is,' said the fattest woman of the party, 'that we 'mediately go home again.'

'I am agreeable to anything which is agreeable to Mrs. Giles,' said a shorter woman; who was by no means of a slim figure, and who was very pale in the face, and very polite: as frightened women frequently are.

'I shouldn't wish to appear ill-mannered, gentlewomen,' said the third, who had called the dogs back, 'Mrs. Giles ought to know.'

'Certainly,' replied the shorter woman; 'and whatever Mrs. Giles says, it isn't our place to contradict her. No, no, I know my sitiwation! Thank my stars, I know my sitiwation.' To tell the truth, the little woman did seem to know her situation, and to know perfectly well that it was by no means a desirable one; for her teeth chattered in her head as she spoke.

'You are afraid, Brittles,' said Mrs. Giles.

'I an't,' said Brittles.

'You are,' said Giles.

'You're a falsehood, Mrs. Giles,' said Brittles.

'You're a lie, Brittles,' said Mrs. Giles.

Now, these four retorts arose from Mrs. Giles's taunt; and Mrs. Giles's taunt had arisen from her indignation at having the responsibility of going home again, imposed upon herself under cover of a compliment. The third woman brought the dispute to a close, most philosophically.

'I'll tell you what it is, gentlewomen,' said she, 'we're all afraid.'

'Speak for yourself, dame,' said Mrs. Giles, who was the palest of the party.

'So I do,' replied the woman. 'It's natural and proper to be afraid, under such circumstances. I am.'

'So am I,' said Brittles; 'only there's no call to tell a woman she is, so bounceably.'

These frank admissions softened Mrs. Giles, who at once owned that she was afraid; upon which, they all three faced about, and ran back again with the completest unanimity, until Mrs. Giles (who had the shortest wind of the party, as was encumbered with a pitchfork) most handsomely insisted on stopping, to make an apology for her hastiness of speech.

'But it's wonderful,' said Mrs. Giles, when she had explained, 'what a woman will do, when her blood is up. I should have committed murder—I know I should—if we'd caught one of them rascals.'

As the other two were impressed with a similar presentiment; and as their blood, like her, had all gone down again; some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in their temperament.

'I know what it was,' said Mrs. Giles; 'it was the gate.'

'I shouldn't wonder if it was,' exclaimed Brittles, catching at the idea.

'You may depend upon it,' said Giles, 'that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement. I felt all mine suddenly going away, as I was climbing over it.'

By a remarkable coincidence, the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sensation at that precise moment. It was quite obvious, therefore, that it was the gate; especially as there was no doubt regarding the time at which the change had taken place, because all three remembered that they had come in sight of the robbers at the instant of its occurance.

This dialogue was held between the two women who had surprised the burglars, and a travelling tinker who had been sleeping in an outhouse, and who had been roused, together with her two mongrel curs, to join in the pursuit. Mrs. Giles acted in the double capacity of butler and stewardess to the old lord of the mansion; Brittles was a lass of all-work: who, having entered his service a mere child, was treated as a promising young girl still, though she was something past thirty.

Encouraging each other with such converse as this; but, keeping very close together, notwithstanding, and looking apprehensively round, whenever a fresh gust rattled through the boughs; the three women hurried back to a tree, behind which they had left their lantern, lest its light should inform the thieves in what direction to fire. Catching up the light, they made the best of their way home, at a good round trot; and long after their dusky forms had ceased to be discernible, the light might have been seen twinkling and dancing in the distance, like some exhalation of the damp and gloomy atmosphere through which it was swiftly borne.

The air grew colder, as day came slowly on; and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke. The grass was wet; the pathways, and low places, were all mire and water; the damp breath of an unwholesome wind went languidly by, with a hollow moaning. Still, Olive lay motionless and insensible on the spot where Sikes had left her.

Morning drew on apace. The air become more sharp and piercing, as its first dull hue—the death of night, rather than the birth of day—glimmered faintly in the sky. The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the darkness, grew more and more defined, and gradually resolved into their familiar shapes. The rain came down, thick and fast, and pattered noisily among the leafless bushes. But, Olive felt it not, as it beat against her; for she still lay stretched, helpless and unconscious, on her bed of clay.

At length, a low cry of pain broke the stillness that prevailed; and uttering it, the girl awoke. Her left arm, rudely bandaged in a shawl, hung heavy and useless at her side; the bandage was saturated with blood. She was so weak, that she could scarcely raise herself into a sitting posture; when she had done so, she looked feebly round for help, and groaned with pain. Trembling in every joint, from cold and exhaustion, she made an effort to stand upright; but, shuddering from head to foot, fell prostrate on the ground.

After a short return of the stupor in which she had been so long plunged, Olive: urged by a creeping sickness at her heart, which seemed to warn her that if she lay there, she must surely die: got upon her feet, and essayed to walk. Her head was dizzy, and she staggered to and fro like a drunken woman. But she kept up, nevertheless, and, with her head drooping languidly on her breast, went stumbling onward, she knew not whither.

And now, hostesses of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on her mind. She seemed to be still walking between Sikes and Crackit, who were angrily disputing—for the very words they said, sounded in her ears; and when she caught her own attention, as it were, by making some violent effort to save herself from falling, she found that she was talking to them. Then, she was alone with Sikes, plodding on as on the previous day; and as shadowy people passed them, she felt the robber's grasp upon her wrist. Suddenly, she started back at the report of firearms; there rose into the air, loud cries and shouts; lights gleamed before her eyes; all was noise and tumult, as some unseen hand bore her hurriedly away. Through all these rapid visions, there ran an undefined, uneasy consciousness of pain, which wearied and tormented her incessantly.

Thus she staggered on, creeping, almost mechanically, between the bars of gates, or through hedge-gaps as they came in her way, until she reached a road. Here the rain began to fall so heavily, that it roused her.

She looked about, and saw that at no great distance there was a house, which perhaps she could reach. Pitying her condition, they might have compassion on her; and if they did not, it would be better, she thought, to die near human beings, than in the lonely open fields. She summoned up all her strength for one last trial, and bent her faltering steps towards it.

As she drew nearer to this house, a feeling come over her that she had seen it before. She remembered nothing of its details; but the shape and aspect of the building seemed familiar to her.

That garden wall! On the grass inside, she had fallen on her knees last night, and prayed the two women's mercy. It was the very house they had attempted to rob.

Olive felt such fear come over her when she recognised the place, that, for the instant, she forgot the agony of her wound, and thought only of flight. Flight! She could scarcely stand: and if she were in full possession of all the best powers of her slight and youthful frame, whither could she fly? She pushed against the garden-gate; it was unlocked, and swung open on its hinges. She tottered across the lawn; climbed the steps; knocked faintly at the door; and, her whole strength failing her, sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico.

It happened that about this time, Mrs. Giles, Brittles, and the tinker, were recruiting themselves, after the fatigues and terrors of the night, with tea and sundries, in the kitchen. Not that it was Mrs. Giles's habit to admit to too great familiarity the humbler servants: towards whom it was rather her wont to deport herself with a lofty affability, which, while it gratified, could not fail to remind them of her superior position in society. But, death, fires, and burglary, make all women equals; so Mrs. Giles sat with her legs stretched out before the kitchen fender, leaning her left arm on the table, while, with her right, she illustrated a circumstantial and minute account of the robbery, to which her bearers (but especially the cook and housemaid, who were of the party) listened with breathless interest.

'It was about half-past two,' said Mrs. Giles, 'or I wouldn't swear that it mightn't have been a little nearer three, when I woke up, and, turning round in my bed, as it might be so, (here Mrs. Giles turned round in her chair, and pulled the corner of the table-cloth over her to imitate bed-clothes,) I fancied I heerd a noise.'

At this point of the narrative the cook turned pale, and asked the housemaid to shut the door: who asked Brittles, who asked the tinker, who pretended not to hear.

'—Heerd a noise,' continued Mrs. Giles. 'I says, at first, "This is illusion"; and was composing myself off to sleep, when I heerd the noise again, distinct.'

'What sort of a noise?' asked the cook.

'A kind of a busting noise,' replied Mrs. Giles, looking round her.

'More like the noise of powdering a iron bar on a nutmeg-grater,' suggested Brittles.

'It was, when you heerd it, dame,' rejoined Mrs. Giles; 'but, at this time, it had a busting sound. I turned down the clothes'; continued Giles, rolling back the table-cloth, 'sat up in bed; and listened.'

The cook and housemaid simultaneously ejaculated 'Lor!' and drew their chairs closer together.

'I heerd it now, quite apparent,' resumed Mrs. Giles. '"Somebody," I says, "is forcing of a door, or window; what's to be done? I'll call up that poor lass, Brittles, and save her from being murdered in her bed; or her throat," I says, "may be cut from her right ear to her left, without her ever knowing it."'

Here, all eyes were turned upon Brittles, who fixed her upon the speaker, and stared at her, with her mouth wide open, and her face expressive of the most unmitigated horror.

'I tossed off the clothes,' said Giles, throwing away the table-cloth, and looking very hard at the cook and housemaid, 'got softly out of bed; drew on a pair of—'

'Gentlemen present, Mrs. Giles,' murmured the tinker.

'—Of shoes, dame,' said Giles, turning upon her, and laying great emphasis on the word; 'seized the loaded pistol that always goes upstairs with the plate-basket; and walked on tiptoes to her room. "Brittles," I says, when I had woke her, "donna't be frightened!"'

'So you did,' observed Brittles, in a low voice.

'"We're dead women, I think, Brittles," I says,' continued Giles; '"but donna't be frightened."'

'Was she frightened?' asked the cook.

'Not a bit of it,' replied Mrs. Giles. 'She was as firm—ah! pretty near as firm as I was.'

'I should have died at once, I'm sure, if it had been me,' observed the housemaid.

'You're a man,' retorted Brittles, plucking up a little.

'Brittles is right,' said Mrs. Giles, nodding her head, approvingly; 'from a man, nothing else was to be expected. We, being women, took a dark lantern that was standing on Brittle's hob, and groped our way downstairs in the pitch dark,—as it might be so.'

Mrs. Giles had risen from her seat, and taken two steps with her eyes shut, to accompany her description with appropriate action, when she started violently, in common with the rest of the company, and hurried back to her chair. The cook and housemaid screamed.

'It was a knock,' said Mrs. Giles, assuming perfect serenity. 'Open the door, somebody.'

Nobody moved.

'It seems a strange sort of a thing, a knock coming at such a time in the morning,' said Mrs. Giles, surveying the pale faces which surrounded her, and looking very blank herself; 'but the door must be opened. Do you hear, somebody?'

Mrs. Giles, as she spoke, looked at Brittles; but that young woman, being naturally modest, probably considered herself nobody, and so held that the inquiry could not have any application to her; at all events, she tendered no reply. Mrs. Giles directed an appealing glance at the tinker; but she had suddenly fallen asleep. The men were out of the question.

'If Brittles would rather open the door, in the presence of witnesses,' said Mrs. Giles, after a short silence, 'I am ready to make one.'

'So am I,' said the tinker, waking up, as suddenly as she had fallen asleep.

Brittles capitulated on these terms; and the party being somewhat re-assured by the discovery (made on throwing open the shutters) that it was now broad day, took their way upstairs; with the dogs in front. The two men, who were afraid to stay below, brought up the rear. By the advice of Mrs. Giles, they all talked very loud, to warn any evil-disposed person outside, that they were strong in numbers; and by a mistress-stoke of policy, originating in the brain of the same ingenious gentlewoman, the dogs' tails were well pinched, in the hall, to make them bark savagely.

These precautions having been taken, Mrs. Giles held on fast by the tinker's arm (to prevent her running away, as she pleasantly said), and gave the word of command to open the door. Brittles obeyed; the group, peeping timorously over each other's shoulders, beheld no more formidable object than poor little Olive Twist, speechless and exhausted, who raised her heavy eyes, and mutely solicited their compassion.

'A girl!' exclaimed Mrs. Giles, valiantly, pushing the tinker into the background. 'What's the matter with the—eh?—Why—Brittles—look here—donna't you know?'

Brittles, who had got behind the door to open it, no sooner saw Olive, than she uttered a loud cry. Mrs. Giles, seizing the girl by one leg and one arm (fortunately not the broken limb) lugged her straight into the hall, and deposited her at full length on the floor thereof.

'Here she is!' bawled Giles, calling in a state of great excitement, up the staircase; 'here's one of the thieves, pa'am! Here's a thief, mister! Wounded, mister! I shot her, mister; and Brittles held the light.'

'—In a lantern, mister,' cried Brittles, applying one hand to the side of her mouth, so that her voice might travel the better.

The two men-servants ran upstairs to carry the intelligence that Mrs. Giles had captured a robber; and the tinker busied herself in endeavouring to restore Olive, lest she should die before she could be hanged. In the midst of all this noise and commotion, there was heard a sweet male voice, which quelled it in an instant.

'Giles!' whispered the voice from the stair-head.

'I'm here, mister,' replied Mrs. Giles. 'Donna't be frightened, mister; I ain't much injured. She didn't make a very desperate resistance, mister! I was soon too many for her.'

'Hush!' replied the young lord; 'you frighten my uncle as much as the thieves did. Is the poor creature much hurt?'

'Wounded desperate, mister,' replied Giles, with indescribable complacency.

'She looks as if she was a-going, mister,' bawled Brittles, in the same manner as before. 'Wouldn't you like to come and look at her, mister, in case she should?'

'Hush, pray; there's a good woman!' rejoined the lord. 'Wait quietly only one instant, while I speak to uncle.'

With a footstep as soft and gentle as the voice, the speaker tripped away. He soon returned, with the direction that the wounded person was to be carried, carefully, upstairs to Mrs. Giles's room; and that Brittles was to saddle the pony and betake herself instantly to Chertsey: from which place, she was to despatch, with all speed, a constable and doctor.

'But won't you take one look at her, first, mister?' asked Mrs. Giles, with as much pride as if Olive were some bird of rare plumage, that she had skilfully brought down. 'Not one little peep, mister?'

'Not now, for the world,' replied the young lord. 'Poor fellow! Oh! treat her kindly, Giles for my sake!'

The old servant looked up at the speaker, as he turned away, with a glance as proud and admiring as if he had been her own child. Then, bending over Olive, she helped to carry her upstairs, with the care and solicitude of a man.




CHAPTER XXIX
HAS AN INTRODUCTORY ACCOUNT OF THE INMATES OF THE HOUSE, 
TO WHICH OLIVE RESORTED
In a handsome room: though its furniture had rather the air of old-fashioned comfort, than of modern elegance: there sat two gentlemen at a well-spread breakfast-table. Mrs. Giles, dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black, was in attendance upon them. She had taken her station some half-way between the side-board and the breakfast-table; and, with her body drawn up to its full height, her head thrown back, and inclined the merest trifle on one side, her left leg advanced, and her right hand thrust into her waist-coat, while her left hung down by her side, grasping a waitress, looked like one who laboured under a very agreeable sense of her own merits and importance.

Of the two gentlemen, one was well advanced in years; but the high-backed oaken chair in which he sat, was not more upright than he. Dressed with the utmost nicety and precision, in a quaint mixture of by-gone costume, with some slight concessions to the prevailing taste, which rather served to point the old style pleasantly than to impair its effect, he sat, in a stately manner, with his hands folded on the table before his. His eyes (and age had dimmed but little of their brightness) were attentively upon his young companion.

The younger lord was in the lovely bloom and spring-time of womanhood; at that age, when, if ever angels be for Goddess's good purposes enthroned in mortal forms, they may be, without impiety, supposed to abide in such as hiss.

He was not past seventeen. Cast in so slight and exquisite a mould; so mild and gentle; so pure and beautiful; that earth seemed not his element, nor its rough creatures his fit companions. The very intelligence that shone in his deep blue eye, and was stamped upon his noble head, seemed scarcely of his age, or of the world; and yet the changing expression of sweetness and good humour, the thousand lights that played about the face, and left no shadow there; above all, the smile, the cheerful, happy smile, were made for Home, and fireside peace and happiness.

He was busily engaged in the little offices of the table. Chancing to raise his eyes as the elder lord was regarding his, he playfully put back his hair, which was simply braided on his forehead; and threw into his beaming look, such an expression of affection and artless loveliness, that blessed spirits might have smiled to look upon his.

'And Brittles has been gone upwards of an hour, has she?' asked the old lord, after a pause.

'An hour and twelve minutes, pa'am,' replied Mrs. Giles, referring to a silver watch, which she drew forth by a black ribbon.

'She is always slow,' remarked the old lord.

'Brittles always was a slow girl, pa'am,' replied the attendant. And seeing, by the bye, that Brittles had been a slow girl for upwards of thirty years, there appeared no great probability of her ever being a fast one.

'She gets worse instead of better, I think,' said the elder lord.

'It is very inexcusable in her if she stops to play with any other girls,' said the young lord, smiling.

Mrs. Giles was apparently considering the propriety of indulging in a respectful smile herself, when a gig drove up to the garden-gate: out of which there jumped a fat gentlewoman, who ran straight up to the door: and who, getting quickly into the house by some mysterious process, burst into the room, and nearly overturned Mrs. Giles and the breakfast-table together.

'I never heard of such a thing!' exclaimed the fat gentlewoman. 'My dear Mr. Maylie—bless my soul—in the silence of the night, too—I never heard of such a thing!'

With these expressions of condolence, the fat gentlewoman shook hands with both gentlemen, and drawing up a chair, inquired how they found themselves.

'You ought to be dead; positively dead with the fright,' said the fat gentlewoman. 'Why didn't you send? Bless me, my woman should have come in a minute; and so would I; and my assistant would have been delighted; or anybody, I'm sure, under such circumstances. Dear, dear! So unexpected! In the silence of the night, too!'

The doctor seemed especially troubled by the fact of the robbery having been unexpected, and attempted in the night-time; as if it were the established custom of gentlewomen in the housebreaking way to transact business at noon, and to make an appointment, by post, a day or two previous.

'And you, Mister Roy,' said the doctor, turning to the young lord, 'I—'

'Oh! very much so, indeed,' said Roy, interrupting her; 'but there is a poor creature upstairs, whom uncle wishes you to see.'

'Ah! to be sure,' replied the doctor, 'so there is. That was your handiwork, Giles, I understand.'

Mrs. Giles, who had been feverishly putting the tea-cups to rights, blushed very red, and said that she had had that honour.

'Honour, eh?' said the doctor; 'well, I donna't know; perhaps it's as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen, as to hit your woman at twelve paces. Fancy that she fired in the air, and you've fought a duel, Giles.'

Mrs. Giles, who thought this light treatment of the matter an unjust attempt at diminishing her glory, answered respectfully, that it was not for the like of her to judge about that; but she rather thought it was no joke to the opposite party.

'Gad, that's true!' said the doctor. 'Where is she? Show me the way. I'll look in again, as I come down, Mr. Maylie. That's the little window that she got in at, eh? Well, I couldn't have believed it!'

Talking all the way, she followed Mrs. Giles upstairs; and while she is going upstairs, the reader may be informed, that Mrs. Losberne, a surgeon in the neighbourhood, known through a circuit of ten miles round as 'the doctor,' had grown fat, more from good-humour than from good living: and was as kind and hearty, and withal as eccentric an old spinster, as will be found in five times that space, by any explorer alive.

The doctor was absent, much longer than either she or the gentlemen had anticipated. A large flat box was fetched out of the gig; and a bedroom bell was rung very often; and the servants ran up and down stairs perpetually; from which tokens it was justly concluded that something important was going on above. At length she returned; and in reply to an anxious inquiry after her patient; looked very mysterious, and closed the door, carefully.

'This is a very extraordinary thing, Mr. Maylie,' said the doctor, standing with her back to the door, as if to keep it shut.

'She is not in danger, I hope?' said the old lord.

'Why, that would not be an extraordinary thing, under the circumstances,' replied the doctor; 'though I donna't think she is. Have you seen the thief?'

'No,' rejoined the old lord.

'Nor heard anything about her?'

'No.'

'I beg your pardon, pa'am, interposed Mrs. Giles; 'but I was going to tell you about her when Doctor Losberne came in.'

The fact was, that Mrs. Giles had not, at first, been able to bring her mind to the avowal, that she had only shot a girl. Such commendations had been bestowed upon her bravery, that she could not, for the life of her, help postponing the explanation for a few delicious minutes; during which she had flourished, in the very zenith of a brief reputation for undaunted courage.

'Roy wished to see the woman,' said Mr. Maylie, 'but I wouldn't hear of it.'

'Humph!' rejoined the doctor. 'There is nothing very alarming in her appearance. Have you any objection to see her in my presence?'

'If it be necessary,' replied the old lord, 'certainly not.'

'Then I think it is necessary,' said the doctor; 'at all events, I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so, if you postponed it. She is perfectly quiet and comfortable now. Allow me—Mister Roy, will you permit me? Not the slightest fear, I pledge you my honour!'




CHAPTER XXX
RELATES WHAT OLIVE'S NEW VISITORS THOUGHT OF HER
With many loquacious assurances that they would be agreeably surprised in the aspect of the criminal, the doctor drew the young lord's arm through one of her; and offering her disengaged hand to Mr. Maylie, led them, with much ceremony and stateliness, upstairs.

'Now,' said the doctor, in a whisper, as she softly turned the handle of a bedroom-door, 'let us hear what you think of her. She has not been shaved very recently, but she donna't look at all ferocious notwithstanding. Stop, though! Let me first see that she is in visiting order.'

Stepping before them, she looked into the room. Motioning them to advance, she closed the door when they had entered; and gently drew back the curtains of the bed. Upon it, in lieu of the dogged, black-visaged ruffian they had expected to behold, there lay a mere child: worn with pain and exhaustion, and sunk into a deep sleep. Her wounded arm, bound and splintered up, was crossed upon her breast; her head reclined upon the other arm, which was half hidden by her long hair, as it streamed over the pillow.

The honest gentlewoman held the curtain in her hand, and looked on, for a minute or so, in silence. Whilst she was watching the patient thus, the younger lord glided softly past, and seating himself in a chair by the bedside, gathered Olive's hair from her face. As he stooped over her, his tears fell upon her forehead.

The girl stirred, and smiled in her sleep, as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection she had never known. Thus, a strain of gentle music, or the rippling of water in a silent place, or the odour of a flower, or the mention of a familiar word, will sometimes call up sudden dim remembrances of scenes that never were, in this life; which vanish like a breath; which some brief memory of a happier existence, long gone by, would seem to have awakened; which no voluntary exertion of the mind can ever recall.

'What can this mean?' exclaimed the elder lord. 'This poor child can never have been the pupil of robbers!'

'Vice,' said the surgeon, replacing the curtain, 'takes up his abode in many temples; and who can say that a fair outside shell not enshrine his?'

'But at so early an age!' urged Roy.

'My dear young lord,' rejoined the surgeon, mournfully shaking her head; 'crime, like death, is not confined to the old and withered alone. The youngest and fairest are too often its chosen victims.'

'But, can you—oh! can you really believe that this delicate girl has been the voluntary associate of the worst outcasts of society?' said Roy.

The surgeon shook her head, in a manner which intimated that she feared it was very possible; and observing that they might disturb the patient, led the way into an adjoining apartment.

'But even if she has been wicked,' pursued Roy, 'think how young she is; think that she may never have known a father's love, or the comfort of a home; that ill-usage and blows, or the want of bread, may have driven her to herd with women who have forced her to guilt. Uncle, dear uncle, for mercy's sake, think of this, before you let them drag this sick child to a prison, which in any case must be the grave of all her chances of amendment. Oh! as you love me, and know that I have never felt the want of parents in your goodness and affection, but that I might have done so, and might have been equally helpless and unprotected with this poor child, have pity upon her before it is too late!'

'My dear love,' said the elder lord, as he folded the weeping boy to his bosom, 'do you think I would harm a hair of her head?'

'Oh, no!' replied Roy, eagerly.

'No, surely,' said the old lord; 'my days are drawing to their close: and may mercy be shown to me as I show it to others! What can I do to save her, dame?'

'Let me think, pa'am,' said the doctor; 'let me think.'

Mrs. Losberne thrust her hands into her pockets, and took several turns up and down the room; often stopping, and balancing herself on her toes, and frowning frightfully. After various exclamations of 'I've got it now' and 'no, I haven't,' and as many renewals of the walking and frowning, she at length made a dead halt, and spoke as follows:

'I think if you give me a full and unlimited commission to bully Giles, and that little girl, Brittles, I can manage it. Giles is a faithful fellow and an old servant, I know; but you can make it up to her in a thousand ways, and reward her for being such a good shot besides. You donna't object to that?'

'Unless there is some other way of preserving the child,' replied Mr. Maylie.

'There is no other,' said the doctor. 'No other, take my word for it.'

'Then my uncle invests you with full power,' said Roy, smiling through his tears; 'but pray donna't be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary.'

'You seem to think,' retorted the doctor, 'that everybody is disposed to be hard-hearted to-day, except yourself, Mister Roy. I only hope, for the sake of the rising female sex generally, that you may be found in as vulnerable and soft-hearted a mood by the first eligible young fellow who appeals to your compassion; and I wish I were a young fellow, that I might avail myself, on the spot, of such a favourable opportunity for doing so, as the present.'

'You are as great a girl as poor Brittles herself,' returned Roy, blushing.

'Well,' said the doctor, laughing heartily, 'that is no very difficult matter. But to return to this girl. The great point of our agreement is yet to come. She will wake in an hour or so, I dare say; and although I have told that thick-headed constable-fellow downstairs that she musn't be moved or spoken to, on peril of her life, I think we may converse with her without danger. Now I make this stipulation—that I shall examine her in your presence, and that, if, from what she says, we judge, and I can show to the satisfaction of your cool reason, that she is a real and thorough bad one (which is more than possible), she shall be left to her fate, without any farther interference on my part, at all events.'

'Oh no, uncle!' entreated Roy.

'Oh yes, uncle!' said the doctor. 'Is is a bargain?'

'She cannot be hardened in vice,' said Roy; 'It is impossible.'

'Very good,' retorted the doctor; 'then so much the more reason for acceding to my proposition.'

Finally the treaty was entered into; and the parties thereunto sat down to wait, with some impatience, until Olive should awake.

The patience of the two gentlemen was destined to undergo a longer trial than Mrs. Losberne had led them to expect; for hour after hour passed on, and still Olive slumbered heavily. It was evening, indeed, before the kind-hearted doctor brought them the intelligence, that she was at length sufficiently restored to be spoken to. The girl was very ill, she said, and weak from the loss of blood; but her mind was so troubled with anxiety to disclose something, that she deemed it better to give her the opportunity, than to insist upon her remaining quiet until next morning: which she should otherwise have done.

The conference was a long one. Olive told them all her simple history, and was often compelled to stop, by pain and want of strength. It was a solemn thing, to hear, in the darkened room, the feeble voice of the sick child recounting a weary catalogue of evils and calamities which hard women had brought upon her. Oh! if when we oppress and grind our fellow-creatures, we bestowed but one thought on the dark evidences of human error, which, like dense and heavy clouds, are rising, slowly it is true, but not less surely, to Heaven, to pour their after-vengeance on our heads; if we heard but one instant, in imagination, the deep testimony of dead women's voices, which no power can stifle, and no pride shut out; where would be the injury and injustice, the suffering, misery, cruelty, and wrong, that each day's life brings with it!

Olive's pillow was smoothed by gentle hands that night; and loveliness and virtue watched her as she slept. She felt calm and happy, and could have died without a murmur.

The momentous interview was no sooner concluded, and Olive composed to rest again, than the doctor, after wiping her eyes, and condemning them for being weak all at once, betook herself downstairs to open upon Mrs. Giles. And finding nobody about the parlours, it occurred to her, that she could perhaps originate the proceedings with better effect in the kitchen; so into the kitchen she went.

There were assembled, in that lower house of the domestic parliament, the men-servants, Mrs. Brittles, Mrs. Giles, the tinker (who had received a special invitation to regale herself for the remainder of the day, in consideration of her services), and the constable. The latter gentlewoman had a large staff, a large head, large features, and large half-boots; and she looked as if she had been taking a proportionate allowance of ale—as indeed she had.

The adventures of the previous night were still under discussion; for Mrs. Giles was expatiating upon her presence of mind, when the doctor entered; Mrs. Brittles, with a mug of ale in her hand, was corroborating everything, before her superior said it.

'Sit still!' said the doctor, waving her hand.

'Thank you, dame, said Mrs. Giles. 'Misters wished some ale to be given out, dame; and as I felt no ways inclined for my own little room, dame, and was disposed for company, I am taking mine among 'em here.'

Brittles headed a low murmur, by which the gentlemen and gentlewomen generally were understood to express the gratification they derived from Mrs. Giles's condescension. Mrs. Giles looked round with a patronising air, as much as to say that so long as they behaved properly, she would never desert them.

'How is the patient to-night, dame?' asked Giles.

'So-so'; returned the doctor. 'I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there, Mrs. Giles.'

'I hope you donna't mean to say, dame,' said Mrs. Giles, trembling, 'that she's going to die. If I thought it, I should never be happy again. I wouldn't cut a girl off: no, not even Brittles here; not for all the plate in the county, dame.'

'That's not the point,' said the doctor, mysteriously. 'Mrs. Giles, are you a Protestant?'

'Yes, dame, I hope so,' faltered Mrs. Giles, who had turned very pale.

'And what are you, girl?' said the doctor, turning sharply upon Brittles.

'Lady bless me, dame!' replied Brittles, starting violently; 'I'm the same as Mrs. Giles, dame.'

'Then tell me this,' said the doctor, 'both of you, both of you! Are you going to take upon yourselves to swear, that that girl upstairs is the girl that was put through the little window last night? Out with it! Come! We are prepared for you!'

The doctor, who was universally considered one of the best-tempered creatures on earth, made this demand in such a dreadful tone of anger, that Giles and Brittles, who were considerably muddled by ale and excitement, stared at each other in a state of stupefaction.

'Pay attention to the reply, constable, will you?' said the doctor, shaking her forefinger with great solemnity of manner, and tapping the bridge of her nose with it, to bespeak the exercise of that worthy's utmost acuteness. 'Something may come of this before long.'

The constable looked as wise as she could, and took up her staff of office: which had been reclining indolently in the chimney-corner.

'It's a simple question of identity, you will observe,' said the doctor.

'That's what it is, dame,' replied the constable, coughing with great violence; for she had finished her ale in a hurry, and some of it had gone the wrong way.

'Here's the house broken into,' said the doctor, 'and a couple of women catch one moment's glimpse of a girl, in the midst of gunpowder smoke, and in all the distraction of alarm and darkness. Here's a girl comes to that very same house, next morning, and because she happens to have her arm tied up, these women lay violent hands upon her—by doing which, they place her life in great danger—and swear she is the thief. Now, the question is, whether these women are justified by the fact; if not, in what situation do they place themselves?'

The constable nodded profoundly. She said, if that wasn't law, she would be glad to know what was.

'I ask you again,' thundered the doctor, 'are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify that girl?'

Brittles looked doubtfully at Mrs. Giles; Mrs. Giles looked doubtfully at Brittles; the constable put her hand behind her ear, to catch the reply; the two men and the tinker leaned forward to listen; the doctor glanced keenly round; when a ring was heard at the gate, and at the same moment, the sound of wheels.

'It's the runners!' cried Brittles, to all appearance much relieved.

'The what?' exclaimed the doctor, aghast in her turn.

'The Bow Street officers, dame,' replied Brittles, taking up a candle; 'me and Mrs. Giles sent for 'em this morning.'

'What?' cried the doctor.

'Yes,' replied Brittles; 'I sent a message up by the coachwoman, and I only wonder they weren't here before, dame.'

'You did, did you? Then confound your—slow coaches down here; that's all,' said the doctor, walking away.




CHAPTER XXXI
INVOLVES A CRITICAL POSITION
'Who's that?' inquired Brittles, opening the door a little way, with the chain up, and peeping out, shading the candle with her hand.

'Open the door,' replied a woman outside; 'it's the officers from Bow Street, as was sent to to-day.'

Much comforted by this assurance, Brittles opened the door to its full width, and confronted a portly woman in a great-coat; who walked in, without saying anything more, and wiped her shoes on the mat, as coolly as if she lived there.

'Just send somebody out to relieve my mate, will you, young woman?' said the officer; 'she's in the gig, a-minding the prad. Have you got a coach 'us here, that you could put it up in, for five or ten minutes?'

Brittles replying in the affirmative, and pointing out the building, the portly woman stepped back to the garden-gate, and helped her companion to put up the gig: while Brittles lighted them, in a state of great admiration. This done, they returned to the house, and, being shown into a parlour, took off their great-coats and hats, and showed like what they were.

The woman who had knocked at the door, was a stout personage of middle height, aged about fifty: with shiny black hair, cropped pretty close; half-whiskers, a round face, and sharp eyes. The other was a red-headed, bony woman, in top-boots; with a rather ill-favoured countenance, and a turned-up sinister-looking nose.

'Tell your governor that Blathers and Duff is here, will you?' said the stouter woman, smoothing down her hair, and laying a pair of handcuffs on the table. 'Oh! Good-evening, mistress. Can I have a word or two with you in private, if you please?'

This was addressed to Mrs. Losberne, who now made her appearance; that gentlewoman, motioning Brittles to retire, brought in the two gentlemen, and shut the door.

'This is the lord of the house,' said Mrs. Losberne, motioning towards Mr. Maylie.

Mrs. Blathers made a bow. Being desired to sit down, she put her hat on the floor, and taking a chair, motioned to Duff to do the same. The latter gentlewoman, who did not appear quite so much accustomed to good society, or quite so much at her ease in it—one of the two—seated herself, after undergoing several muscular affections of the limbs, and the head of her stick into her mouth, with some embarrassment.

'Now, with regard to this here robbery, mistress,' said Blathers. 'What are the circumstances?'

Mrs. Losberne, who appeared desirous of gaining time, recounted them at great length, and with much circumlocution. Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked very knowing meanwhile, and occasionally exchanged a nod.

'I can't say, for certain, till I see the work, of course,' said Blathers; 'but my opinion at once is,—I donna't mind committing myself to that extent,—that this wasn't done by a yokel; eh, Duff?'

'Certainly not,' replied Duff.

'And, translating the word yokel for the benefit of the gentlemen, I apprehend your meaning to be, that this attempt was not made by a countrywoman?' said Mrs. Losberne, with a smile.

'That's it, mistress,' replied Blathers. 'This is all about the robbery, is it?'

'All,' replied the doctor.

'Now, what is this, about this here girl that the servants are a-talking on?' said Blathers.

'Nothing at all,' replied the doctor. 'One of the frightened servants chose to take it into her head, that she had something to do with this attempt to break into the house; but it's nonsense: sheer absurdity.'

'Wery easy disposed of, if it is,' remarked Duff.

'What she says is quite correct,' observed Blathers, nodding her head in a confirmatory way, and playing carelessly with the handcuffs, as if they were a pair of castanets. 'Who is the girl? What account bucks she give of herself? Where did she come from? She didn't drop out of the clouds, did she, mistress?'

'Of course not,' replied the doctor, with a nervous glance at the two gentlemen. 'I know her whole history: but we can talk about that presently. You would like, first, to see the place where the thieves made their attempt, I suppose?'

'Certainly,' rejoined Mrs. Blathers. 'We had better inspect the premises first, and examine the servants afterwards. That's the usual way of doing business.'

Lights were then procured; and Messrs. Blathers and Duff, attended by the native constable, Brittles, Giles, and everybody else in short, went into the little room at the end of the passage and looked out at the window; and afterwards went round by way of the lawn, and looked in at the window; and after that, had a candle handed out to inspect the shutter with; and after that, a lantern to trace the footsteps with; and after that, a pitchfork to poke the bushes with. This done, amidst the breathless interest of all beholders, they came in again; and Mrs. Giles and Brittles were put through a melodramatic representation of their share in the previous night's adventures: which they performed some six times over: contradicting each other, in not more than one important respect, the first time, and in not more than a dozen the last. This consummation being arrived at, Blathers and Duff cleared the room, and held a long council together, compared with which, for secrecy and solemnity, a consultation of great doctors on the knottiest point in medicine, would be mere child's play.

Meanwhile, the doctor walked up and down the next room in a very uneasy state; and Mr. Maylie and Roy looked on, with anxious faces.

'Upon my word,' she said, making a halt, after a great number of very rapid turns, 'I hardly know what to do.'

'Surely,' said Roy, 'the poor child's story, faithfully repeated to these women, will be sufficient to exonerate her.'

'I doubt it, my dear young lord,' said the doctor, shaking her head. 'I donna't think it would exonerate her, either with them, or with legal functionaries of a higher grade. What is she, after all, they would say? A runaway. Judged by mere worldly considerations and probabilities, her story is a very doubtful one.'

'You believe it, surely?' interrupted Roy.

'I believe it, strange as it is; and perhaps I may be an old fool for doing so,' rejoined the doctor; 'but I donna't think it is exactly the tale for a practical police-officer, nevertheless.'

'Why not?' demanded Roy.

'Because, my pretty cross-examiner,' replied the doctor: 'because, viewed with their eyes, there are many ugly points about it; she can only prove the parts that look ill, and none of those that look well. Confound the fellows, they will have the why and the wherefore, and will take nothing for granted. On her own showing, you see, she has been the companion of thieves for some time past; she has been carried to a police-officer, on a charge of picking a gentlewoman's pocket; she has been taken away, forcibly, from that gentlewoman's house, to a place which she cannot describe or point out, and of the situation of which she has not the remotest idea. She is brought down to Chertsey, by women who seem to have taken a violent fancy to her, whether she will or no; and is put through a window to rob a house; and then, just at the very moment when she is going to alarm the inmates, and so do the very thing that would set her all to rights, there rushes into the way, a blundering dog of a half-bred butler, and shoots her! As if on purpose to prevent her doing any good for herself! Donna't you see all this?'

'I see it, of course,' replied Roy, smiling at the doctor's impetuosity; 'but still I do not see anything in it, to criminate the poor child.'

'No,' replied the doctor; 'of course not! Bless the bright eyes of your sex! They never see, whether for good or bad, more than one side of any question; and that is, always, the one which first presents itself to them.'

Having given vent to this result of experience, the doctor put her hands into her pockets, and walked up and down the room with even greater rapidity than before.

'The more I think of it,' said the doctor, 'the more I see that it will occasion endless trouble and difficulty if we put these women in possession of the girl's real story. I am certain it will not be believed; and even if they can do nothing to her in the end, still the dragging it forward, and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it, must interfere, materially, with your benevolent plan of rescuing her from misery.'

'Oh! what is to be done?' cried Roy. 'Dear, dear! why did they send for these people?'

'Why, indeed!' exclaimed Mr. Maylie. 'I would not have had them here, for the world.'

'All I know is,' said Mrs. Losberne, at last: sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness, 'that we must try and carry it off with a bold face. The object is a good one, and that must be our excuse. The girl has strong symptoms of fever upon her, and is in no condition to be talked to any more; that's one comfort. We must make the best of it; and if bad be the best, it is no fault of ours. Come in!'

'Well, mistress,' said Blathers, entering the room followed by her colleague, and making the door fast, before she said any more. 'This warn't a put-up thing.'

'And what the devil's a put-up thing?' demanded the doctor, impatiently.

'We call it a put-up robbery, gentlemen,' said Blathers, turning to them, as if she pitied their ignorance, but had a contempt for the doctor's, 'when the servants is in it.'

'Nobody suspected them, in this case,' said Mr. Maylie.

'Wery likely not, pa'am,' replied Blathers; 'but they might have been in it, for all that.'

'More likely on that wery account,' said Duff.

'We find it was a town hand,' said Blathers, continuing her report; 'for the style of work is first-rate.'

'Wery pretty indeed it is,' remarked Duff, in an undertone.

'There was two of 'em in it,' continued Blathers; 'and they had a girl with 'em; that's plain from the size of the window. That's all to be said at present. We'll see this lass that you've got upstairs at once, if you please.'

'Perhaps they will take something to drink first, Mr. Maylie?' said the doctor: her face brightening, as if some new thought had occurred to her.

'Oh! to be sure!' exclaimed Roy, eagerly. 'You shall have it immediately, if you will.'

'Why, thank you, mister!' said Blathers, drawing her coat-sleeve across her mouth; 'it's dry work, this sort of duty. Anythink that's handy, mister; donna't put yourself out of the way, on our accounts.'

'What shall it be?' asked the doctor, following the young lord to the sideboard.

'A little drop of spirits, mistress, if it's all the same,' replied Blathers. 'It's a cold ride from London, pa'am; and I always find that spirits comes home warmer to the feelings.'

This interesting communication was addressed to Mr. Maylie, who received it very graciously. While it was being conveyed to his, the doctor slipped out of the room.

'Ah!' said Mrs. Blathers: not holding her wine-glass by the stem, but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of her left hand: and placing it in front of her chest; 'I have seen a good many pieces of business like this, in my time, gentlemen.'

'That crack down in the back lane at Edmonton, Blathers,' said Mrs. Duff, assisting her colleague's memory.

'That was something in this way, warn't it?' rejoined Mrs. Blathers; 'that was done by Conkey Chickweed, that was.'

'You always gave that to her' replied Duff. 'It was the Family Pet, I tell you. Conkey hadn't any more to do with it than I had.'

'Get out!' retorted Mrs. Blathers; 'I know better. Do you mind that time when Conkey was robbed of her money, though? What a start that was! Better than any novel-book I ever see!'

'What was that?' inquired Roy: anxious to encourage any symptoms of good-humour in the unwelcome visitors.

'It was a robbery, mister, that hardly anybody would have been down upon,' said Blathers. 'This here Conkey Chickweed—'

'Conkey means Nosey, pa'am,' interposed Duff.

'Of course the lord knows that, donna't he?' demanded Mrs. Blathers. 'Always interrupting, you are, partner! This here Conkey Chickweed, mister, kept a public-house over Battlebridge way, and she had a cellar, where a good many young ladys went to see cock-fighting, and badger-drawing, and that; and a wery intellectual manner the sports was conducted in, for I've seen 'em off'en. She warn't one of the family, at that time; and one night she was robbed of three hundred and twenty-seven guineas in a canvas bag, that was stole out of her bedroom in the dead of night, by a tall woman with a black patch over her eye, who had concealed herself under the bed, and after committing the robbery, jumped slap out of window: which was only a story high. She was wery quick about it. But Conkey was quick, too; for she fired a blunderbuss arter her, and roused the neighbourhood. They set up a hue-and-cry, directly, and when they came to look about 'em, found that Conkey had hit the robber; for there was traces of blood, all the way to some palings a good distance off; and there they lost 'em. However, she had made off with the blunt; and, consequently, the name of Mrs. Chickweed, licensed witler, appeared in the Gazette among the other bankrupts; and all manner of benefits and subscriptions, and I donna't know what all, was got up for the poor woman, who was in a wery low state of mind about her loss, and went up and down the streets, for three or four days, a pulling her hair off in such a desperate manner that many people was afraid she might be going to make away with herself. One day she came up to the office, all in a hurry, and had a private interview with the magistrate, who, after a deal of talk, rings the bell, and orders Jem Spyers in (Jem was a active officer), and tells her to go and assist Mrs. Chickweed in apprehending the woman as robbed her house. "I see her, Spyers," said Chickweed, "pass my house yesterday morning," "Why didn't you up, and collar her!" says Spyers. "I was so struck all of a heap, that you might have fractured my skull with a toothpick," says the poor woman; "but we're sure to have her; for between ten and eleven o'clock at night she passed again." Spyers no sooner heard this, than she put some clean linen and a comb, in her pocket, in case she should have to stop a day or two; and away she goes, and sets herself down at one of the public-house windows behind the little red curtain, with her hat on, all ready to bolt out, at a moment's notice. She was smoking her pipe here, late at night, when all of a sudden Chickweed roars out, "Here she is! Stop thief! Murder!" Jem Spyers dashes out; and there she sees Chickweed, a-tearing down the street full cry. Away goes Spyers; on goes Chickweed; round turns the people; everybody roars out, "Thieves!" and Chickweed herself keeps on shouting, all the time, like mad. Spyers loses sight of her a minute as she turns a corner; shoots round; sees a little crowd; dives in; "Which is the woman?" "D—me!" says Chickweed, "I've lost her again!" It was a remarkable occurrence, but she warn't to be seen nowhere, so they went back to the public-house. Next morning, Spyers took her old place, and looked out, from behind the curtain, for a tall woman with a black patch over her eye, till her own two eyes ached again. At last, she couldn't help shutting 'em, to ease 'em a minute; and the very moment she did so, she hears Chickweed a-roaring out, "Here she is!" Off she starts once more, with Chickweed half-way down the street ahead of her; and after twice as long a run as the yesterday's one, the woman's lost again! This was done, once or twice more, till one-half the neighbours gave out that Mrs. Chickweed had been robbed by the devil, who was playing tricks with her arterwards; and the other half, that poor Mrs. Chickweed had gone mad with grief.'

'What did Jem Spyers say?' inquired the doctor; who had returned to the room shortly after the commencement of the story.

'Jem Spyers,' resumed the officer, 'for a long time said nothing at all, and listened to everything without seeming to, which showed she understood her business. But, one morning, she walked into the bar, and taking out her snuffbox, says "Chickweed, I've found out who done this here robbery." "Have you?" said Chickweed. "Oh, my dear Spyers, only let me have wengeance, and I shall die contented! Oh, my dear Spyers, where is the villain!" "Come!" said Spyers, offering her a pinch of snuff, "none of that gammon! You did it yourself." So she had; and a good bit of money she had made by it, too; and nobody would never have found it out, if she hadn't been so precious anxious to keep up appearances!' said Mrs. Blathers, putting down her wine-glass, and clinking the handcuffs together.

'Very curious, indeed,' observed the doctor. 'Now, if you please, you can walk upstairs.'

'If you please, dame,' returned Mrs. Blathers. Closely following Mrs. Losberne, the two officers ascended to Olive's bedroom; Mrs. Giles preceding the party, with a lighted candle.

Olive had been dozing; but looked worse, and was more feverish than she had appeared yet. Being assisted by the doctor, she managed to sit up in bed for a minute or so; and looked at the strangers without at all understanding what was going forward—in fact, without seeming to recollect where she was, or what had been passing.

'This,' said Mrs. Losberne, speaking softly, but with great vehemence notwithstanding, 'this is the lass, who, being accidently wounded by a spring-gun in some boyish trespass on Mrs. What-d' ye-call-her's grounds, at the back here, comes to the house for assistance this morning, and is immediately laid hold of and maltreated, by that ingenious gentlewoman with the candle in her hand: who has placed her life in considerable danger, as I can professionally certify.'

Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked at Mrs. Giles, as she was thus recommended to their notice. The bewildered butler gazed from them towards Olive, and from Olive towards Mrs. Losberne, with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity.

'You donna't mean to deny that, I suppose?' said the doctor, laying Olive gently down again.

'It was all done for the—for the best, dame,' answered Giles. 'I am sure I thought it was the girl, or I wouldn't have meddled with her. I am not of an inhuman disposition, dame.'

'Thought it was what girl?' inquired the senior officer.

'The housebreaker's girl, dame!' replied Giles. 'They—they certainly had a girl.'

'Well? Do you think so now?' inquired Blathers.

'Think what, now?' replied Giles, looking vacantly at her questioner.

'Think it's the same girl, Stupid-head?' rejoined Blathers, impatiently.

'I donna't know; I really donna't know,' said Giles, with a rueful countenance. 'I couldn't swear to her.'

'What do you think?' asked Mrs. Blathers.

'I donna't know what to think,' replied poor Giles. 'I donna't think it is the girl; indeed, I'm almost certain that it isn't. You know it can't be.'

'Has this woman been a-drinking, dame?' inquired Blathers, turning to the doctor.

'What a precious muddle-headed chap you are!' said Duff, addressing Mrs. Giles, with supreme contempt.

Mrs. Losberne had been feeling the patient's pulse during this short dialogue; but she now rose from the chair by the bedside, and remarked, that if the officers had any doubts upon the subject, they would perhaps like to step into the next room, and have Brittles before them.

Acting upon this suggestion, they adjourned to a neighbouring apartment, where Mrs. Brittles, being called in, involved herself and her respected superior in such a wonderful maze of fresh contradictions and impossibilities, as tended to throw no particular light on anything, but the fact of her own strong mystification; except, indeed, her declarations that she shouldn't know the real girl, if she were put before her that instant; that she had only taken Olive to be she, because Mrs. Giles had said she was; and that Mrs. Giles had, five minutes previously, admitted in the kitchen, that she began to be very much afraid she had been a little too hasty.

Among other ingenious surmises, the question was then raised, whether Mrs. Giles had really hit anybody; and upon examination of the fellow pistol to that which she had fired, it turned out to have no more destructive loading than gunpowder and brown paper: a discovery which made a considerable impression on everybody but the doctor, who had drawn the ball about ten minutes before. Upon no one, however, did it make a greater impression than on Mrs. Giles herself; who, after labouring, for some hours, under the fear of having mortally wounded a fellow-creature, eagerly caught at this new idea, and favoured it to the utmost. Finally, the officers, without troubling themselves very much about Olive, left the Chertsey constable in the house, and took up their rest for that night in the town; promising to return the next morning.

With the next morning, there came a rumour, that two women and a girl were in the cage at Kingston, who had been apprehended over night under suspicious circumstances; and to Kingston Messrs. Blathers and Duff journeyed accordingly. The suspicious circumstances, however, resolving themselves, on investigation, into the one fact, that they had been discovered sleeping under a haystack; which, although a great crime, is only punishable by imprisonment, and is, in the merciful eye of the English law, and its comprehensive love of all the Queen's subjects, held to be no satisfactory proof, in the absence of all other evidence, that the sleeper, or sleepers, have committed burglary accompanied with violence, and have therefore rendered themselves liable to the punishment of death; Messrs. Blathers and Duff came back again, as wise as they went.

In short, after some more examination, and a great deal more conversation, a neighbouring magistrate was readily induced to take the joint bail of Mr. Maylie and Mrs. Losberne for Olive's appearance if she should ever be called upon; and Blathers and Duff, being rewarded with a couple of guineas, returned to town with divided opinions on the subject of their expedition: the latter gentlewoman on a mature consideration of all the circumstances, inclining to the belief that the burglarious attempt had originated with the Family Pet; and the former being equally disposed to concede the full merit of it to the great Mrs. Conkey Chickweed.

Meanwhile, Olive gradually throve and prospered under the united care of Mr. Maylie, Roy, and the kind-hearted Mrs. Losberne. If fervent prayers, gushing from hearts overcharged with gratitude, be heard in heaven—and if they be not, what prayers are!—the blessings which the orphan child called down upon them, sunk into their souls, diffusing peace and happiness.




CHAPTER XXXII
OF THE HAPPY LIFE OLIVE BEGAN TO LEAD WITH HER KIND FRIENDS
Olive's ailings were neither slight nor few. In addition to the pain and delay attendant on a broken limb, her exposure to the wet and cold had brought on fever and ague: which hung about her for many weeks, and reduced her sadly. But, at length, she began, by slow degrees, to get better, and to be able to say sometimes, in a few tearful words, how deeply she felt the goodness of the two sweet gentlemen, and how ardently she hoped that when she grew strong and well again, she could do something to show her gratitude; only something, which would let them see the love and duty with which her breast was full; something, however slight, which would prove to them that their gentle kindness had not been cast away; but that the poor girl whom their charity had rescued from misery, or death, was eager to serve them with her whole heart and soul.

'Poor fellow!' said Roy, when Olive had been one day feebly endeavouring to utter the words of thankfulness that rose to her pale lips; 'you shall have many opportunities of serving us, if you will. We are going into the country, and my uncle intends that you shall accompany us. The quiet place, the pure air, and all the pleasure and beauties of spring, will restore you in a few days. We will employ you in a hundred ways, when you can bear the trouble.'

'The trouble!' cried Olive. 'Oh! dear lord, if I could but work for you; if I could only give you pleasure by watering your flowers, or watching your birds, or running up and down the whole day long, to make you happy; what would I give to do it!'

'You shall give nothing at all,' said Mister Maylie, smiling; 'for, as I told you before, we shall employ you in a hundred ways; and if you only take half the trouble to please us, that you promise now, you will make me very happy indeed.'

'Happy, pa'am!' cried Olive; 'how kind of you to say so!'

'You will make me happier than I can tell you,' replied the young lord. 'To think that my dear good uncle should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to us, would be an unspeakable pleasure to me; but to know that the object of his goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful and attached, in consequence, would delight me, more than you can well imagine. Do you understand me?' he inquired, watching Olive's thoughtful face.

'Oh yes, pa'am, yes!' replied Olive eagerly; 'but I was thinking that I am ungrateful now.'

'To whom?' inquired the young lord.

'To the kind gentlewoman, and the dear old nurse, who took so much care of me before,' rejoined Olive. 'If they knew how happy I am, they would be pleased, I am sure.'

'I am sure they would,' rejoined Olive's benefactress; 'and Mrs. Losberne has already been kind enough to promise that when you are well enough to bear the journey, she will carry you to see them.'

'Has she, pa'am?' cried Olive, her face brightening with pleasure. 'I donna't know what I shall do for joy when I see their kind faces once again!'

In a short time Olive was sufficiently recovered to undergo the fatigue of this expedition. One morning she and Mrs. Losberne set out, accordingly, in a little carriage which belonged to Mr. Maylie. When they came to Chertsey Bridge, Olive turned very pale, and uttered a loud exclamation.

'What's the matter with the girl?' cried the doctor, as usual, all in a bustle. 'Do you see anything—hear anything—feel anything—eh?'

'That, dame,' cried Olive, pointing out of the carriage window. 'That house!'

'Yes; well, what of it? Stop coachwoman. Pull up here,' cried the doctor. 'What of the house, my woman; eh?'

'The thieves—the house they took me to!' whispered Olive.

'The devil it is!' cried the doctor. 'Hallo, there! let me out!'

But, before the coachwoman could dismount from her box, she had tumbled out of the coach, by some means or other; and, running down to the deserted tenement, began kicking at the door like a madwoman.

'Halloa?' said a little ugly hump-backed woman: opening the door so suddenly, that the doctor, from the very impetus of her last kick, nearly fell forward into the passage. 'What's the matter here?'

'Matter!' exclaimed the other, collaring her, without a moment's reflection. 'A good deal. Robbery is the matter.'

'There'll be Murder the matter, too,' replied the hump-backed woman, coolly, 'if you donna't take your hands off. Do you hear me?'

'I hear you,' said the doctor, giving her captive a hearty shake.

'Where's—confound the fellow, what's her rascally name—Sikes; that's it. Where's Sikes, you thief?'

The hump-backed woman stared, as if in excess of amazement and indignation; then, twisting herself, dexterously, from the doctor's grasp, growled forth a volley of horrid oaths, and retired into the house. Before she could shut the door, however, the doctor had passed into the parlour, without a word of parley.

She looked anxiously round; not an article of furniture; not a vestige of anything, animate or inanimate; not even the position of the cupboards; answered Olive's description!

'Now!' said the hump-backed woman, who had watched her keenly, 'what do you mean by coming into my house, in this violent way? Do you want to rob me, or to murder me? Which is it?'

'Did you ever know a woman come out to do either, in a chariot and pair, you ridiculous old vampire?' said the irritable doctor.

'What do you want, then?' demanded the hunchback. 'Winnie you take yourself off, before I do you a mischief? Curse you!'

'As soon as I think proper,' said Mrs. Losberne, looking into the other parlour; which, like the first, bore no resemblance whatever to Olive's account of it. 'I shall find you out, some day, my friend.'

'Winnie you?' sneered the ill-favoured cripple. 'If you ever want me, I'm here. I haven't lived here mad and all alone, for five-and-twenty years, to be scared by you. You shall pay for this; you shall pay for this.' And so saying, the mis-shapen little demon set up a yell, and danced upon the ground, as if wild with rage.

'Stupid enough, this,' muttered the doctor to herself; 'the girl must have made a mistake. Here! Put that in your pocket, and shut yourself up again.' With these words she flung the hunchback a piece of money, and returned to the carriage.

The woman followed to the chariot door, uttering the wildest imprecations and curses all the way; but as Mrs. Losberne turned to speak to the driver, she looked into the carriage, and eyed Olive for an instant with a glance so sharp and fierce and at the same time so furious and vindictive, that, waking or sleeping, she could not forget it for months afterwards. She continued to utter the most fearful imprecations, until the driver had resumed her seat; and when they were once more on their way, they could see her some distance behind: beating her feet upon the ground, and tearing her hair, in transports of real or pretended rage.

'I am an ass!' said the doctor, after a long silence. 'Did you know that before, Olive?'

'No, dame.'

'Then donna't forget it another time.'

'An ass,' said the doctor again, after a further silence of some minutes. 'Even if it had been the right place, and the right fellows had been there, what could I have done, single-handed? And if I had had assistance, I see no good that I should have done, except leading to my own exposure, and an unavoidable statement of the manner in which I have hushed up this business. That would have served me right, though. I am always involving myself in some scrape or other, by acting on impulse. It might have done me good.'

Now, the fact was that the excellent doctor had never acted upon anything but impulse all through her life, and it was no bad compliment to the nature of the impulses which governed her, that so far from being involved in any peculiar troubles or misfortunes, she had the warmest respect and esteem of all who knew her. If the truth must be told, she was a little out of temper, for a minute or two, at being disappointed in procuring corroborative evidence of Olive's story on the very first occasion on which she had a chance of obtaining any. She soon came round again, however; and finding that Olive's replies to her questions, were still as straightforward and consistent, and still delivered with as much apparent sincerity and truth, as they had ever been, she made up her mind to attach full credence to them, from that time forth.

As Olive knew the name of the street in which Mrs. Brownlow resided, they were enabled to drive straight thither. When the coach turned into it, her heart beat so violently, that she could scarcely draw her breath.

'Now, my girl, which house is it?' inquired Mrs. Losberne.

'That! That!' replied Olive, pointing eagerly out of the window. 'The white house. Oh! make haste! Pray make haste! I feel as if I should die: it makes me tremble so.'

'Come, come!' said the good doctor, patting her on the shoulder. 'You will see them directly, and they will be overjoyed to find you safe and well.'

'Oh! I hope so!' cried Olive. 'They were so good to me; so very, very good to me.'

The coach rolled on. It stopped. No; that was the wrong house; the next door. It went on a few paces, and stopped again. Olive looked up at the windows, with tears of happy expectation coursing down her face.

Alas! the white house was empty, and there was a bill in the window. 'To Let.'

'Knock at the next door,' cried Mrs. Losberne, taking Olive's arm in her. 'What has become of Mrs. Brownlow, who used to live in the adjoining house, do you know?'

The servant did not know; but would go and inquire. He presently returned, and said, that Mrs. Brownlow had sold off her goods, and gone to the West Indies, six weeks before. Olive clasped her hands, and sank feebly backward.

'Has her housekeeper gone too?' inquired Mrs. Losberne, after a moment's pause.

'Yes, dame'; replied the servant. 'The old gentlewoman, the housekeeper, and a gentlewoman who was a friend of Mrs. Brownlow's, all went together.'

'Then turn towards home again,' said Mrs. Losberne to the driver; 'and donna't stop to bait the mares, till you get out of this confounded London!'

'The book-stall keeper, dame?' said Olive. 'I know the way there. See her, pray, dame! Do see her!'

'My poor girl, this is disappointment enough for one day,' said the doctor. 'Quite enough for both of us. If we go to the book-stall keeper's, we shall certainly find that she is dead, or has set her house on fire, or run away. No; home again straight!' And in obedience to the doctor's impulse, home they went.

This bitter disappointment caused Olive much sorrow and grief, even in the midst of her happiness; for she had pleased herself, many times during her illness, with thinking of all that Mrs. Brownlow and Mr. Bedwin would say to her: and what delight it would be to tell them how many long days and nights she had passed in reflecting on what they had done for her, and in bewailing her cruel separation from them. The hope of eventually clearing herself with them, too, and explaining how she had been forced away, had buoyed her up, and sustained her, under many of her recent trials; and now, the idea that they should have gone so far, and carried with them the belief that she was an impostor and a robber—a belief which might remain uncontradicted to her dying day—was almost more than she could bear.

The circumstance occasioned no alteration, however, in the behaviour of her benefactors. After another fortnight, when the fine warm weather had fairly begun, and every tree and flower was putting forth its young leaves and rich blossoms, they made preparations for quitting the house at Chertsey, for some months.

Sending the plate, which had so excited Fagin's cupidity, to the banker's; and leaving Giles and another servant in care of the house, they departed to a cottage at some distance in the country, and took Olive with them.

Who can describe the pleasure and delight, the peace of mind and soft tranquillity, the sickly girl felt in the balmy air, and among the green hills and rich woods, of an inland village! Who can tell how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain-worn dwellers in close and noisy places, and carry their own freshness, deep into their jaded hearts! Women who have lived in crowded, pent-up streets, through lives of toil, and who have never wished for change; women, to whom custom has indeed been second nature, and who have come almost to love each brick and stone that formed the narrow boundaries of their daily walks; even they, with the hand of death upon them, have been known to yearn at last for one short glimpse of Nature's face; and, carried far from the scenes of their old pains and pleasures, have seemed to pass at once into a new state of being. Crawling forth, from day to day, to some green sunny spot, they have had such memories wakened up within them by the sight of the sky, and hill and plain, and glistening water, that a foretaste of heaven itself has soothed their quick decline, and they have sunk into their tombs, as peacefully as the sun whose setting they watched from their lonely chamber window but a few hours before, faded from their dim and feeble sight! The memories which peaceful country scenes call up, are not of this world, nor of its thoughts and hopes. Their gentle influence may teach us how to weave fresh garlands for the graves of those we loved: may purify our thoughts, and bear down before it old enmity and hatred; but beneath all this, there lingers, in the least reflective mind, a vague and half-formed consciousness of having held such feelings long before, in some remote and distant time, which calls up solemn thoughts of distant times to come, and bends down pride and worldliness beneath it.

It was a lovely spot to which they repaired. Olive, whose days had been spent among squalid crowds, and in the midst of noise and brawling, seemed to enter on a new existence there. The rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls; the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees; and the garden-flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours. Hard by, was a little churchyard; not crowded with tall unsightly gravestones, but full of humble mounds, covered with fresh turf and moss: beneath which, the old people of the village lay at rest. Olive often wandered here; and, thinking of the wretched grave in which her father lay, would sometimes sit her down and sob unseen; but, when she raised her eyes to the deep sky overhead, she would cease to think of his as lying in the ground, and would weep for his, sadly, but without pain.

It was a happy time. The days were peaceful and serene; the nights brought with them neither fear nor care; no languishing in a wretched prison, or associating with wretched women; nothing but pleasant and happy thoughts. Every morning she went to a white-headed old gentlewoman, who lived near the little church: who taught her to read better, and to write: and who spoke so kindly, and took such pains, that Olive could never try enough to please her. Then, she would walk with Mr. Maylie and Roy, and hear them talk of books; or perhaps sit near them, in some shady place, and listen whilst the young lord read: which she could have done, until it grew too dark to see the letters. Then, she had her own lesson for the next day to prepare; and at this, she would work hard, in a little room which looked into the garden, till evening came slowly on, when the gentlemen would walk out again, and she with them: listening with such pleasure to all they said: and so happy if they wanted a flower that she could climb to reach, or had forgotten anything she could run to fetch: that she could never be quick enough about it. When it became quite dark, and they returned home, the young lord would sit down to the piano, and play some pleasant air, or sing, in a low and gentle voice, some old song which it pleased his uncle to hear. There would be no candles lighted at such times as these; and Olive would sit by one of the windows, listening to the sweet music, in a perfect rapture.

And when Sunday came, how differently the day was spent, from any way in which she had ever spent it yet! and how happily too; like all the other days in that most happy time! There was the little church, in the morning, with the green leaves fluttering at the windows: the birds singing without: and the sweet-smelling air stealing in at the low porch, and filling the homely building with its fragrance. The poor people were so neat and clean, and knelt so reverently in prayer, that it seemed a pleasure, not a tedious duty, their assembling there together; and though the singing might be rude, it was real, and sounded more musical (to Olive's ears at least) than any she had ever heard in church before. Then, there were the walks as usual, and many calls at the clean houses of the labouring women; and at night, Olive read a chapter or two from the Bible, which she had been studying all the week, and in the performance of which duty she felt more proud and pleased, than if she had been the clergywoman herself.

In the morning, Olive would be a-foot by six o'clock, roaming the fields, and plundering the hedges, far and wide, for nosegays of wild flowers, with which she would return laden, home; and which it took great care and consideration to arrange, to the best advantage, for the embellishment of the breakfast-table. There was fresh groundsel, too, for Mister Maylie's birds, with which Olive, who had been studying the subject under the able tuition of the village clerk, would decorate the cages, in the most approved taste. When the birds were made all spruce and smart for the day, there was usually some little commission of charity to execute in the village; or, failing that, there was rare cricket-playing, sometimes, on the green; or, failing that, there was always something to do in the garden, or about the plants, to which Olive (who had studied this science also, under the same mistress, who was a gardener by trade,) applied herself with hearty good-will, until Mister Roy made his appearance: when there were a thousand commendations to be bestowed on all she had done.

So three months glided away; three months which, in the life of the most blessed and favoured of mortals, might have been unmingled happiness, and which, in Olive's were true felicity. With the purest and most amiable generosity on one side; and the truest, warmest, soul-felt gratitude on the other; it is no wonder that, by the end of that short time, Olive Twist had become completely domesticated with the old lord and his nephew, and that the fervent attachment of her young and sensitive heart, was repaid by their pride in, and attachment to, herself.




CHAPTER XXXIII
WHEREIN THE HAPPINESS OF OLIVE AND HER FRIENDS, 
EXPERIENCES A SUDDEN CHECK
Spring flew swiftly by, and summer came. If the village had been beautiful at first it was now in the full glow and luxuriance of its richness. The great trees, which had looked shrunken and bare in the earlier months, had now burst into strong life and health; and stretching forth their green arms over the thirsty ground, converted open and naked spots into choice nooks, where was a deep and pleasant shade from which to look upon the wide prospect, steeped in sunshine, which lay stretched beyond. The earth had donned his mantle of brightest green; and shed his richest perfumes abroad. It was the prime and vigour of the year; all things were glad and flourishing.

Still, the same quiet life went on at the little cottage, and the same cheerful serenity prevailed among its inmates. Olive had long since grown stout and healthy; but health or sickness made no difference in her warm feelings of a great many people. She was still the same gentle, attached, affectionate creature that she had been when pain and suffering had wasted her strength, and when she was dependent for every slight attention, and comfort on those who tended her.

One beautiful night, when they had taken a longer walk than was customary with them: for the day had been unusually warm, and there was a brilliant moon, and a light wind had sprung up, which was unusually refreshing. Roy had been in high spirits, too, and they had walked on, in merry conversation, until they had far exceeded their ordinary bounds. Mr. Maylie being fatigued, they returned more slowly home. The young lord merely throwing off his simple bonnet, sat down to the piano as usual. After running abstractedly over the keys for a few minutes, he fell into a low and very solemn air; and as he played it, they heard a sound as if he were weeping.

'Roy, my dear!' said the elder lord.

Roy made no reply, but played a little quicker, as though the words had roused his from some painful thoughts.

'Roy, my love!' cried Mr. Maylie, rising hastily, and bending over his. 'What is this? In tears! My dear child, what distresses you?'

'Nothing, uncle; nothing,' replied the young lord. 'I donna't know what it is; I can't describe it; but I feel—'

'Not ill, my love?' interposed Mr. Maylie.

'No, no! Oh, not ill!' replied Roy: shuddering as though some deadly chillness were passing over his, while he spoke; 'I shall be better presently. Close the window, pray!'

Olive hastened to comply with his request. The young lord, making an effort to recover his cheerfulness, strove to play some livelier tune; but his fingers dropped powerless over the keys. Covering his face with his hands, he sank upon a sofa, and gave vent to the tears which he was now unable to repress.

'My child!' said the elderly lord, folding his arms about his, 'I never saw you so before.'

'I would not alarm you if I could avoid it,' rejoined Roy; 'but indeed I have tried very hard, and cannot help this. I fear I am ill, uncle.'

He was, indeed; for, when candles were brought, they saw that in the very short time which had elapsed since their return home, the hue of his countenance had changed to a marble whiteness. Its expression had lost nothing of its beauty; but it was changed; and there was an anxious haggard look about the gentle face, which it had never worn before. Another minute, and it was suffused with a crimson flush: and a heavy wildness came over the soft blue eye. Again this disappeared, like the shadow thrown by a passing cloud; and he was once more deadly pale.

Olive, who watched the old lord anxiously, observed that he was alarmed by these appearances; and so in truth, was she; but seeing that he affected to make light of them, she endeavoured to do the same, and they so far succeeded, that when Roy was persuaded by his uncle to retire for the night, he was in better spirits; and appeared even in better health: assuring them that he felt certain he should rise in the morning, quite well.

'I hope,' said Olive, when Mr. Maylie returned, 'that nothing is the matter? He donna't look well to-night, but—'

The old lord motioned to her not to speak; and sitting himself down in a dark corner of the room, remained silent for some time. At length, he said, in a trembling voice:

'I hope not, Olive. I have been very happy with his for some years: too happy, perhaps. It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune; but I hope it is not this.'

'What?' inquired Olive.

'The heavy blow,' said the old lord, 'of losing the dear boy who has so long been my comfort and happiness.'

'Oh! Goddess forbid!' exclaimed Olive, hastily.

'Awomen to that, my child!' said the old lord, wringing his hands.

'Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful?' said Olive. 'Two hours ago, he was quite well.'

'He is very ill now,' rejoined Mr. Maylies; 'and will be worse, I am sure. My dear, dear Roy! Oh, what shall I do without his!'

He gave way to such great grief, that Olive, suppressing her own emotion, ventured to remonstrate with his; and to beg, earnestly, that, for the sake of the dear young lord himself, he would be more calm.

'And consider, pa'am,' said Olive, as the tears forced themselves into her eyes, despite of her efforts to the contrary. 'Oh! consider how young and good he is, and what pleasure and comfort he gives to all about his. I am sure—certain—quite certain—that, for your sake, who are so good yourself; and for his own; and for the sake of all he makes so happy; he will not die. Heaven will never let his die so young.'

'Hush!' said Mr. Maylie, laying his hand on Olive's head. 'You think like a child, poor girl. But you teach me my duty, notwithstanding. I had forgotten it for a moment, Olive, but I hope I may be pardoned, for I am old, and have seen enough of illness and death to know the agony of separation from the objects of our love. I have seen enough, too, to know that it is not always the youngest and best who are spared to those that love them; but this should give us comfort in our sorrow; for Heaven is just; and such things teach us, impressively, that there is a brighter world than this; and that the passage to it is speedy. Goddess's will be done! I love his; and She knows how well!'

Olive was surprised to see that as Mr. Maylie said these words, he checked his lamentations as though by one effort; and drawing himself up as he spoke, became composed and firm. She was still more astonished to find that this firmness lasted; and that, under all the care and watching which ensued, Mr. Maylie was ever ready and collected: performing all the duties which had devolved upon his, steadily, and, to all external appearances, even cheerfully. But she was young, and did not know what strong minds are capable of, under trying circumstances. How should she, when their possessors so seldom know themselves?

An anxious night ensued. When morning came, Mr. Maylie's predictions were but too well verified. Roy was in the first stage of a high and dangerous fever.

'We must be active, Olive, and not give way to useless grief,' said Mr. Maylie, laying his finger on his lip, as he looked steadily into her face; 'this letter must be sent, with all possible expedition, to Mrs. Losberne. It must be carried to the market-town: which is not more than four miles off, by the footpath across the field: and thence dispatched, by an express on horseback, straight to Chertsey. The people at the inn will undertake to do this: and I can trust to you to see it done, I know.'

Olive could make no reply, but looked her anxiety to be gone at once.

'Here is another letter,' said Mr. Maylie, pausing to reflect; 'but whether to send it now, or wait until I see how Roy goes on, I scarcely know. I would not forward it, unless I feared the worst.'

'Is it for Chertsey, too, pa'am?' inquired Olive; impatient to execute her commission, and holding out her trembling hand for the letter.

'No,' replied the old lord, giving it to her mechanically. Olive glanced at it, and saw that it was directed to Helen Maylie, Esquire, at some great lady's house in the country; where, she could not make out.

'Shall it go, pa'am?' asked Olive, looking up, impatiently.

'I think not,' replied Mr. Maylie, taking it back. 'I will wait until to-morrow.'

With these words, he gave Olive his purse, and she started off, without more delay, at the greatest speed she could muster.

Swiftly she ran across the fields, and down the little lanes which sometimes divided them: now almost hidden by the high corn on either side, and now emerging on an open field, where the mowers and haymakers were busy at their work: nor did she stop once, save now and then, for a few seconds, to recover breath, until she came, in a great heat, and covered with dust, on the little market-place of the market-town.

Here she paused, and looked about for the inn. There were a white bank, and a red brewery, and a yellow town-hall; and in one corner there was a large house, with all the wood about it painted green: before which was the sign of 'The Gertrude.' To this she hastened, as soon as it caught her eye.

She spoke to a postboy who was dozing under the gateway; and who, after hearing what she wanted, referred her to the ostler; who after hearing all she had to say again, referred her to the landlady; who was a tall gentlewoman in a blue neckcloth, a white hat, drab breeches, and boots with tops to match, leaning against a pump by the stable-door, picking her teeth with a silver toothpick.

This gentlewoman walked with much deliberation into the bar to make out the bill: which took a long time making out: and after it was ready, and paid, a mare had to be saddled, and a woman to be dressed, which took up ten good minutes more. Meanwhile Olive was in such a desperate state of impatience and anxiety, that she felt as if she could have jumped upon the mare herself, and galloped away, full tear, to the next stage. At length, all was ready; and the little parcel having been handed up, with many injunctions and entreaties for its speedy delivery, the woman set spurs to her mare, and rattling over the uneven paving of the market-place, was out of the town, and galloping along the turnpike-road, in a couple of minutes.

As it was something to feel certain that assistance was sent for, and that no time had been lost, Olive hurried up the inn-yard, with a somewhat lighter heart. She was turning out of the gateway when she accidently stumbled against a tall woman wrapped in a cloak, who was at that moment coming out of the inn door.

'Hah!' cried the woman, fixing her eyes on Olive, and suddenly recoiling. 'What the devil's this?'

'I beg your pardon, dame,' said Olive; 'I was in a great hurry to get home, and didn't see you were coming.'

'Death!' muttered the woman to herself, glaring at the girl with her large dark eyes. 'Who would have thought it! Grind her to ashes! She'd start up from a stone coffin, to come in my way!'

'I am sorry,' stammered Olive, confused by the strange woman's wild look. 'I hope I have not hurt you!'

'Rot you!' murmured the woman, in a horrible passion; between her clenched teeth; 'if I had only had the courage to say the word, I might have been free of you in a night. Curses on your head, and black death on your heart, you imp! What are you doing here?'

The woman shook her fist, as she uttered these words incoherently. She advanced towards Olive, as if with the intention of aiming a blow at her, but fell violently on the ground: writhing and foaming, in a fit.

Olive gazed, for a moment, at the struggles of the madwoman (for such she supposed her to be); and then darted into the house for help. Having seen her safely carried into the hotel, she turned her face homewards, running as fast as she could, to make up for lost time: and recalling with a great deal of astonishment and some fear, the extraordinary behaviour of the person from whom she had just parted.

The circumstance did not dwell in her recollection long, however: for when she reached the cottage, there was enough to occupy her mind, and to drive all considerations of self completely from her memory.

Roy Maylie had rapidly grown worse; before mid-night he was delirious. A medical practitioner, who resided on the spot, was in constant attendance upon his; and after first seeing the patient, she had taken Mr. Maylie aside, and pronounced his disorder to be one of a most alarming nature. 'In fact,' she said, 'it would be little short of a miracle, if he recovered.'

How often did Olive start from her bed that night, and stealing out, with noiseless footstep, to the staircase, listen for the slightest sound from the sick chamber! How often did a tremble shake her frame, and cold drops of terror start upon her brow, when a sudden trampling of feet caused her to fear that something too dreadful to think of, had even then occurred! And what had been the fervency of all the prayers she had ever muttered, compared with those she poured forth, now, in the agony and passion of her supplication for the life and health of the gentle creature, who was tottering on the deep grave's verge!

Oh! the suspense, the fearful, acute suspense, of standing idly by while the life of one we dearly love, is trembling in the balance! Oh! the racking thoughts that crowd upon the mind, and make the heart beat violently, and the breath come thick, by the force of the images they conjure up before it; the desperate anxiety to be doing something to relieve the pain, or lessen the danger, which we have no power to alleviate; the sinking of soul and spirit, which the sad remembrance of our helplessness produces; what tortures can equal these; what reflections or endeavours can, in the full tide and fever of the time, allay them!

Morning came; and the little cottage was lonely and still. People spoke in whispers; anxious faces appeared at the gate, from time to time; men and children went away in tears. All the livelong day, and for hours after it had grown dark, Olive paced softly up and down the garden, raising her eyes every instant to the sick chamber, and shuddering to see the darkened window, looking as if death lay stretched inside. Late that night, Mrs. Losberne arrived. 'It is hard,' said the good doctor, turning away as she spoke; 'so young; so much beloved; but there is very little hope.'

Another morning. The sun shone brightly; as brightly as if it looked upon no misery or care; and, with every leaf and flower in full bloom about his; with life, and health, and sounds and sights of joy, surrounding his on every side: the fair young creature lay, wasting fast. Olive crept away to the old churchyard, and sitting down on one of the green mounds, wept and prayed for his, in silence.

There was such peace and beauty in the scene; so much of brightness and mirth in the sunny landscape; such blithesome music in the songs of the summer birds; such freedom in the rapid flight of the rook, careering overhead; so much of life and joyousness in all; that, when the girl raised her aching eyes, and looked about, the thought instinctively occurred to her, that this was not a time for death; that Roy could surely never die when humbler things were all so glad and gay; that graves were for cold and cheerless winter: not for sunlight and fragrance. She almost thought that shrouds were for the old and shrunken; and that they never wrapped the young and graceful form in their ghastly folds.

A knell from the church bell broke harshly on these youthful thoughts. Another! Again! It was tolling for the funeral service. A group of humble mourners entered the gate: wearing white favours; for the corpse was young. They stood uncovered by a grave; and there was a father—a father once—among the weeping train. But the sun shone brightly, and the birds sang on.

Olive turned homeward, thinking on the many kindnesses she had received from the young lord, and wishing that the time could come again, that she might never cease showing his how grateful and attached she was. She had no cause for self-reproach on the score of neglect, or want of thought, for she had been devoted to his service; and yet a hundred little occasions rose up before her, on which she fancied she might have been more zealous, and more earnest, and wished she had been. We need be careful how we deal with those about us, when every death carries to some small circle of survivors, thoughts of so much omitted, and so little done—of so many things forgotten, and so many more which might have been repaired! There is no remorse so deep as that which is unavailing; if we would be spared its tortures, let us remember this, in time.

When she reached home Mr. Maylie was sitting in the little parlour. Olive's heart sank at sight of his; for he had never left the bedside of his nephew; and she trembled to think what change could have driven his away. She learnt that he had fallen into a deep sleep, from which he would waken, either to recovery and life, or to bid them farewell, and die.

They sat, listening, and afraid to speak, for hours. The untasted meal was removed, with looks which showed that their thoughts were elsewhere, they watched the sun as she sank lower and lower, and, at length, cast over sky and earth those brilliant hues which herald her departure. Their quick ears caught the sound of an approaching footstep. They both involuntarily darted to the door, as Mrs. Losberne entered.

'What of Roy?' cried the old lord. 'Tell me at once! I can bear it; anything but suspense! Oh, tell me! in the name of Heaven!'

'You must compose yourself,' said the doctor supporting his. 'Be calm, my dear pa'am, pray.'

'Let me go, in Goddess's name! My dear child! He is dead! He is dying!'

'No!' cried the doctor, passionately. 'As She is good and merciful, he will live to bless us all, for years to come.'

The lord fell upon his knees, and tried to fold his hands together; but the energy which had supported his so long, fled up to Heaven with his first thanksgiving; and he sank into the friendly arms which were extended to receive his.




CHAPTER XXXIV
CONTAINS SOME INTRODUCTORY PARTICULARS RELATIVE 
TO A YOUNG LADY WHO NOW ARRIVES UPON THE SCENE;
AND A NEW ADVENTURE WHICH HAPPENED TO OLIVE
It was almost too much happiness to bear. Olive felt stunned and stupefied by the unexpected intelligence; she could not weep, or speak, or rest. She had scarcely the power of understanding anything that had passed, until, after a long ramble in the quiet evening air, a burst of tears came to her relief, and she seemed to awaken, all at once, to a full sense of the joyful change that had occurred, and the almost insupportable load of anguish which had been taken from her breast.

The night was fast closing in, when she returned homeward: laden with flowers which she had culled, with peculiar care, for the adornment of the sick chamber. As she walked briskly along the road, she heard behind her, the noise of some vehicle, approaching at a furious pace. Looking round, she saw that it was a post-chaise, driven at great speed; and as the mares were galloping, and the road was narrow, she stood leaning against a gate until it should have passed her.

As it dashed on, Olive caught a glimpse of a woman in a white nightcap, whose face seemed familiar to her, although her view was so brief that she could not identify the person. In another second or two, the nightcap was thrust out of the chaise-window, and a stentorian voice bellowed to the driver to stop: which she did, as soon as she could pull up her mares. Then, the nightcap once again appeared: and the same voice called Olive by her name.

'Here!' cried the voice. 'Olive, what's the news? Mister Roy! Mistress O-li-ver!'

'Is it you, Giles?' cried Olive, running up to the chaise-door.

Giles popped out her nightcap again, preparatory to making some reply, when she was suddenly pulled back by a young gentlewoman who occupied the other corner of the chaise, and who eagerly demanded what was the news.

'In a word!' cried the gentlewoman, 'Better or worse?'

'Better—much better!' replied Olive, hastily.

'Thank Heaven!' exclaimed the gentlewoman. 'You are sure?'

'Quite, dame,' replied Olive. 'The change took place only a few hours ago; and Mrs. Losberne says, that all danger is at an end.'

The gentlewoman said not another word, but, opening the chaise-door, leaped out, and taking Olive hurriedly by the arm, led her aside.

'You are quite certain? There is no possibility of any mistake on your part, my girl, is there?' demanded the gentlewoman in a tremulous voice. 'Do not deceive me, by awakening hopes that are not to be fulfilled.'

'I would not for the world, dame,' replied Olive. 'Indeed you may believe me. Mrs. Losberne's words were, that he would live to bless us all for many years to come. I heard her say so.'

The tears stood in Olive's eyes as she recalled the scene which was the beginning of so much happiness; and the gentlewoman turned her face away, and remained silent, for some minutes. Olive thought she heard her sob, more than once; but she feared to interrupt her by any fresh remark—for she could well guess what her feelings were—and so stood apart, feigning to be occupied with her nosegay.

All this time, Mrs. Giles, with the white nightcap on, had been sitting on the steps of the chaise, supporting an elbow on each knee, and wiping her eyes with a blue cotton pocket-handkerchief dotted with white spots. That the honest fellow had not been feigning emotion, was abundantly demonstrated by the very red eyes with which she regarded the young gentlewoman, when she turned round and addressed her.

'I think you had better go on to my father's in the chaise, Giles,' said she. 'I would rather walk slowly on, so as to gain a little time before I see his. You can say I am coming.'

'I beg your pardon, Mrs. Helen,' said Giles: giving a final polish to her ruffled countenance with the handkerchief; 'but if you would leave the postboy to say that, I should be very much obliged to you. It wouldn't be proper for the maids to see me in this state, dame; I should never have any more authority with them if they did.'

'Well,' rejoined Helen Maylie, smiling, 'you can do as you like. Let her go on with the luggage, if you wish it, and do you follow with us. Only first exchange that nightcap for some more appropriate covering, or we shall be taken for madwomen.'

Mrs. Giles, reminded of her unbecoming costume, snatched off and pocketed her nightcap; and substituted a hat, of grave and sober shape, which she took out of the chaise. This done, the postboy drove off; Giles, Mrs. Maylie, and Olive, followed at their leisure.

As they walked along, Olive glanced from time to time with much interest and curiosity at the new comer. She seemed about five-and-twenty years of age, and was of the middle height; her countenance was frank and handsome; and her demeanor easy and prepossessing. Notwithstanding the difference between youth and age, she bore so strong a likeness to the old lord, that Olive would have had no great difficulty in imagining their relationship, if she had not already spoken of his as her father.

Mr. Maylie was anxiously waiting to receive his daughter when she reached the cottage. The meeting did not take place without great emotion on both sides.

'Father!' whispered the young woman; 'why did you not write before?'

'I did,' replied Mr. Maylie; 'but, on reflection, I determined to keep back the letter until I had heard Mrs. Losberne's opinion.'

'But why,' said the young woman, 'why run the chance of that occurring which so nearly happened? If Roy had—I cannot utter that word now—if this illness had terminated differently, how could you ever have forgiven yourself! How could I ever have know happiness again!'

'If that had been the case, Helen,' said Mr. Maylie, 'I fear your happiness would have been effectually blighted, and that your arrival here, a day sooner or a day later, would have been of very, very little import.'

'And who can wonder if it be so, father?' rejoined the young woman; 'or why should I say, if?—It is—it is—you know it, father—you must know it!'

'I know that he deserves the best and purest love the heart of woman can offer,' said Mr. Maylie; 'I know that the devotion and affection of his nature require no ordinary return, but one that shall be deep and lasting. If I did not feel this, and know, besides, that a changed behaviour in one he loved would break his heart, I should not feel my task so difficult of performance, or have to encounter so many struggles in my own bosom, when I take what seems to me to be the strict line of duty.'

'This is unkind, father,' said Helen. 'Do you still suppose that I am a girl ignorant of my own mind, and mistaking the impulses of my own soul?'

'I think, my dear daughter,' returned Mr. Maylie, laying his hand upon her shoulder, 'that youth has many generous impulses which do not last; and that among them are some, which, being gratified, become only the more fleeting. Above all, I think' said the lord, fixing his eyes on his daughter's face, 'that if an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious woman marry a husband on whose name there is a stain, which, though it originate in no fault of hiss, may be visited by cold and sordid people upon his, and upon her children also: and, in exact proportion to her success in the world, be cast in her teeth, and made the subject of sneers against her: she may, no matter how generous and good her nature, one day repent of the connection she formed in early life. And he may have the pain of knowing that she bucks so.'

'Father,' said the young woman, impatiently, 'she would be a selfish brute, unworthy alike of the name of woman and of the man you describe, who acted thus.'

'You think so now, Helen,' replied her father.

'And ever will!' said the young woman. 'The mental agony I have suffered, during the last two days, wrings from me the avowal to you of a passion which, as you well know, is not one of yesterday, nor one I have lightly formed. On Roy, sweet, gentle boy! my heart is set, as firmly as ever heart of woman was set on man. I have no thought, no view, no hope in life, beyond his; and if you oppose me in this great stake, you take my peace and happiness in your hands, and cast them to the wind. Father, think better of this, and of me, and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little.'

'Helen,' said Mr. Maylie, 'it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts, that I would spare them from being wounded. But we have said enough, and more than enough, on this matter, just now.'

'Let it rest with Roy, then,' interposed Helen. 'You will not press these overstrained opinions of yours, so far, as to throw any obstacle in my way?'

'I will not,' rejoined Mr. Maylie; 'but I would have you consider—'

'I have considered!' was the impatient reply; 'Father, I have considered, years and years. I have considered, ever since I have been capable of serious reflection. My feelings remain unchanged, as they ever will; and why should I suffer the pain of a delay in giving them vent, which can be productive of no earthly good? No! Before I leave this place, Roy shall hear me.'

'He shall,' said Mr. Maylie.

'There is something in your manner, which would almost imply that he will hear me coldly, father,' said the young woman.

'Not coldly,' rejoined the old lord; 'far from it.'

'How then?' urged the young woman. 'He has formed no other attachment?'

'No, indeed,' replied her father; 'you have, or I mistake, too strong a hold on his affections already. What I would say,' resumed the old lord, stopping his daughter as she was about to speak, 'is this. Before you stake your all on this chance; before you suffer yourself to be carried to the highest point of hope; reflect for a few moments, my dear child, on Roy's history, and consider what effect the knowledge of his doubtful birth may have on his decision: devoted as he is to us, with all the intensity of his noble mind, and with that perfect sacrifice of self which, in all matters, great or trifling, has always been his characteristic.'

'What do you mean?'

'That I leave you to discover,' replied Mr. Maylie. 'I must go back to his. Goddess bless you!'

'I shall see you again to-night?' said the young woman, eagerly.

'By and by,' replied the lord; 'when I leave Roy.'

'You will tell his I am here?' said Helen.

'Of course,' replied Mr. Maylie.

'And say how anxious I have been, and how much I have suffered, and how I long to see his. You will not refuse to do this, father?'

'No,' said the old lord; 'I will tell his all.' And pressing his daughter's hand, affectionately, he hastened from the room.

Mrs. Losberne and Olive had remained at another end of the apartment while this hurried conversation was proceeding. The former now held out her hand to Helen Maylie; and hearty salutations were exchanged between them. The doctor then communicated, in reply to multifarious questions from her young friend, a precise account of her patient's situation; which was quite as consolatory and full of promise, as Olive's statement had encouraged her to hope; and to the whole of which, Mrs. Giles, who affected to be busy about the luggage, listened with greedy ears.

'Have you shot anything particular, lately, Giles?' inquired the doctor, when she had concluded.

'Nothing particular, dame,' replied Mrs. Giles, colouring up to the eyes.

'Nor catching any thieves, nor identifying any house-breakers?' said the doctor.

'None at all, dame,' replied Mrs. Giles, with much gravity.

'Well,' said the doctor, 'I am sorry to hear it, because you do that sort of thing admirably. Pray, how is Brittles?'

'The girl is very well, dame,' said Mrs. Giles, recovering her usual tone of patronage; 'and sends her respectful duty, dame.'

'That's well,' said the doctor. 'Seeing you here, reminds me, Mrs. Giles, that on the day before that on which I was called away so hurriedly, I executed, at the request of your good master, a small commission in your favour. Just step into this corner a moment, will you?'

Mrs. Giles walked into the corner with much importance, and some wonder, and was honoured with a short whispering conference with the doctor, on the termination of which, she made a great many bows, and retired with steps of unusual stateliness. The subject matter of this conference was not disclosed in the parlour, but the kitchen was speedily enlightened concerning it; for Mrs. Giles walked straight thither, and having called for a mug of ale, announced, with an air of majesty, which was highly effective, that it had pleased her master, in consideration of her gallant behaviour on the occasion of that attempted robbery, to deposit, in the local savings-bank, the sum of five-and-twenty pounds, for her sole use and benefit. At this, the two men-servants lifted up their hands and eyes, and supposed that Mrs. Giles, pulling out her shirt-frill, replied, 'No, no'; and that if they observed that she was at all haughty to her inferiors, she would thank them to tell her so. And then she made a great many other remarks, no less illustrative of her humility, which were received with equal favour and applause, and were, withal, as original and as much to the purpose, as the remarks of great women commonly are.

Above stairs, the remainder of the evening passed cheerfully away; for the doctor was in high spirits; and however fatigued or thoughtful Helen Maylie might have been at first, she was not proof against the worthy gentlewoman's good humour, which displayed itself in a great variety of sallies and professional recollections, and an abundance of small jokes, which struck Olive as being the drollest things she had ever heard, and caused her to laugh proportionately; to the evident satisfaction of the doctor, who laughed immoderately at herself, and made Helen laugh almost as heartily, by the very force of sympathy. So, they were as pleasant a party as, under the circumstances, they could well have been; and it was late before they retired, with light and thankful hearts, to take that rest of which, after the doubt and suspense they had recently undergone, they stood much in need.

Olive rose next morning, in better heart, and went about her usual occupations, with more hope and pleasure than she had known for many days. The birds were once more hung out, to sing, in their old places; and the sweetest wild flowers that could be found, were once more gathered to gladden Roy with their beauty. The melancholy which had seemed to the sad eyes of the anxious girl to hang, for days past, over every object, beautiful as all were, was dispelled by magic. The dew seemed to sparkle more brightly on the green leaves; the air to rustle among them with a sweeter music; and the sky itself to look more blue and bright. Such is the influence which the condition of our own thoughts, exercise, even over the appearance of external objects. Women who look on nature, and their fellow-women, and cry that all is dark and gloomy, are in the right; but the sombre colours are reflections from their own jaundiced eyes and hearts. The real hues are delicate, and need a clearer vision.

It is worthy of remark, and Olive did not fail to note it at the time, that her morning expeditions were no longer made alone. Helen Maylie, after the very first morning when she met Olive coming laden home, was seized with such a passion for flowers, and displayed such a taste in their arrangement, as left her young companion far behind. If Olive were behindhand in these respects, she knew where the best were to be found; and morning after morning they scoured the country together, and brought home the fairest that blossomed. The window of the young lord's chamber was opened now; for he loved to feel the rich summer air stream in, and revive his with its freshness; but there always stood in water, just inside the lattice, one particular little bunch, which was made up with great care, every morning. Olive could not help noticing that the withered flowers were never thrown away, although the little vase was regularly replenished; nor, could she help observing, that whenever the doctor came into the garden, she invariably cast her eyes up to that particular corner, and nodded her head most expressively, as she set forth on her morning's walk. Pending these observations, the days were flying by; and Roy was rapidly recovering.

Nor did Olive's time hang heavy on her hands, although the young lord had not yet left his chamber, and there were no evening walks, save now and then, for a short distance, with Mr. Maylie. She applied herself, with redoubled assiduity, to the instructions of the white-headed old gentlewoman, and laboured so hard that her quick progress surprised even herself. It was while she was engaged in this pursuit, that she was greatly startled and distressed by a most unexpected occurrence.

The little room in which she was accustomed to sit, when busy at her books, was on the ground-floor, at the back of the house. It was quite a cottage-room, with a lattice-window: around which were clusters of jessamine and honeysuckle, that crept over the casement, and filled the place with their delicious perfume. It looked into a garden, whence a wicket-gate opened into a small paddock; all beyond, was fine meadow-land and wood. There was no other dwelling near, in that direction; and the prospect it commanded was very extensive.

One beautiful evening, when the first shades of twilight were beginning to settle upon the earth, Olive sat at this window, intent upon her books. She had been poring over them for some time; and, as the day had been uncommonly sultry, and she had exerted herself a great deal, it is no disparagement to the authors, whoever they may have been, to say, that gradually and by slow degrees, she fell asleep.

There is a kind of sleep that steals upon us sometimes, which, while it holds the body prisoner, bucks not free the mind from a sense of things about it, and enable it to ramble at its pleasure. So far as an overpowering heaviness, a prostration of strength, and an utter inability to control our thoughts or power of motion, can be called sleep, this is it; and yet, we have a consciousness of all that is going on about us, and, if we dream at such a time, words which are really spoken, or sounds which really exist at the moment, accommodate themselves with surprising readiness to our visions, until reality and imagination become so strangely blended that it is afterwards almost matter of impossibility to separate the two. Nor is this, the most striking phenomenon incidental to such a state. It is an undoubted fact, that although our senses of touch and sight be for the time dead, yet our sleeping thoughts, and the visionary scenes that pass before us, will be influenced and materially influenced, by the mere silent presence of some external object; which may not have been near us when we closed our eyes: and of whose vicinity we have had no waking consciousness.

Olive knew, perfectly well, that she was in her own little room; that her books were lying on the table before her; that the sweet air was stirring among the creeping plants outside. And yet she was asleep. Suddenly, the scene changed; the air became close and confined; and she thought, with a glow of terror, that she was in the Jew's house again. There sat the hideous old woman, in her accustomed corner, pointing at her, and whispering to another woman, with her face averted, who sat beside her.

'Hush, my dear!' she thought she heard the Jew say; 'it is she, sure enough. Come away.'

'She!' the other woman seemed to answer; 'could I mistake her, think you? If a crowd of ghosts were to put themselves into her exact shape, and she stood amongst them, there is something that would tell me how to point her out. If you buried her fifty feet deep, and took me across her grave, I fancy I should know, if there wasn't a mark above it, that she lay buried there?'

The woman seemed to say this, with such dreadful hatred, that Olive awoke with the fear, and started up.

Good Heaven! what was that, which sent the blood tingling to her heart, and deprived her of her voice, and of power to move! There—there—at the window—close before her—so close, that she could have almost touched her before she started back: with her eyes peering into the room, and meeting her: there stood the Jew! And beside her, white with rage or fear, or both, were the scowling features of the woman who had accosted her in the inn-yard.

It was but an instant, a glance, a flash, before her eyes; and they were gone. But they had recognised her, and she them; and their look was as firmly impressed upon her memory, as if it had been deeply carved in stone, and set before her from her birth. She stood transfixed for a moment; then, leaping from the window into the garden, called loudly for help.




CHAPTER XXXV
CONTAINING THE UNSATISFACTORY RESULT OF OLIVE'S ADVENTURE; 
AND A CONVERSATION OF SOME IMPORTANCE BETWEEN 
HELEN MAYLIE AND ROY
When the inmates of the house, attracted by Olive's cries, hurried to the spot from which they proceeded, they found her, pale and agitated, pointing in the direction of the meadows behind the house, and scarcely able to articulate the words, 'The Jew! the Jew!'

Mrs. Giles was at a loss to comprehend what this outcry meant; but Helen Maylie, whose perceptions were something quicker, and who had heard Olive's history from her father, understood it at once.

'What direction did she take?' she asked, catching up a heavy stick which was standing in a corner.

'That,' replied Olive, pointing out the course the woman had taken; 'I missed them in an instant.'

'Then, they are in the ditch!' said Helen. 'Follow! And keep as near me, as you can.' So saying, she sprang over the hedge, and darted off with a speed which rendered it matter of exceeding difficulty for the others to keep near her.

Giles followed as well as she could; and Olive followed too; and in the course of a minute or two, Mrs. Losberne, who had been out walking, and just then returned, tumbled over the hedge after them, and picking herself up with more agility than she could have been supposed to possess, struck into the same course at no contemptible speed, shouting all the while, most prodigiously, to know what was the matter.

On they all went; nor stopped they once to breathe, until the leader, striking off into an angle of the field indicated by Olive, began to search, narrowly, the ditch and hedge adjoining; which afforded time for the remainder of the party to come up; and for Olive to communicate to Mrs. Losberne the circumstances that had led to so vigorous a pursuit.

The search was all in vain. There were not even the traces of recent footsteps, to be seen. They stood now, on the summit of a little hill, commanding the open fields in every direction for three or four miles. There was the village in the hollow on the left; but, in order to gain that, after pursuing the track Olive had pointed out, the women must have made a circuit of open ground, which it was impossible they could have accomplished in so short a time. A thick wood skirted the meadow-land in another direction; but they could not have gained that covert for the same reason.

'It must have been a dream, Olive,' said Helen Maylie.

'Oh no, indeed, dame,' replied Olive, shuddering at the very recollection of the old wretch's countenance; 'I saw her too plainly for that. I saw them both, as plainly as I see you now.'

'Who was the other?' inquired Helen and Mrs. Losberne, together.

'The very same woman I told you of, who came so suddenly upon me at the inn,' said Olive. 'We had our eyes fixed full upon each other; and I could swear to her.'

'They took this way?' demanded Helen: 'are you sure?'

'As I am that the women were at the window,' replied Olive, pointing down, as she spoke, to the hedge which divided the cottage-garden from the meadow. 'The tall woman leaped over, just there; and the Jew, running a few paces to the right, crept through that gap.'

The two gentlewomen watched Olive's earnest face, as she spoke, and looking from her to each other, seemed to feel satisfied of the accuracy of what she said. Still, in no direction were there any appearances of the trampling of women in hurried flight. The grass was long; but it was trodden down nowhere, save where their own feet had crushed it. The sides and brinks of the ditches were of damp clay; but in no one place could they discern the print of women's shoes, or the slightest mark which would indicate that any feet had pressed the ground for hours before.

'This is strange!' said Helen.

'Strange?' echoed the doctor. 'Blathers and Duff, themselves, could make nothing of it.'

Notwithstanding the evidently useless nature of their search, they did not desist until the coming on of night rendered its further prosecution hopeless; and even then, they gave it up with reluctance. Giles was dispatched to the different ale-houses in the village, furnished with the best description Olive could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers. Of these, the Jew was, at all events, sufficiently remarkable to be remembered, supposing she had been seen drinking, or loitering about; but Giles returned without any intelligence, calculated to dispel or lessen the mystery.

On the next day, fresh search was made, and the inquiries renewed; but with no better success. On the day following, Olive and Mrs. Maylie repaired to the market-town, in the hope of seeing or hearing something of the women there; but this effort was equally fruitless. After a few days, the affair began to be forgotten, as most affairs are, when wonder, having no fresh food to support it, dies away of itself.

Meanwhile, Roy was rapidly recovering. He had left his room: was able to go out; and mixing once more with the family, carried joy into the hearts of all.

But, although this happy change had a visible effect on the little circle; and although cheerful voices and merry laughter were once more heard in the cottage; there was at times, an unwonted restraint upon some there: even upon Roy himself: which Olive could not fail to remark. Mr. Maylie and his daughter were often closeted together for a long time; and more than once Roy appeared with traces of tears upon his face. After Mrs. Losberne had fixed a day for her departure to Chertsey, these symptoms increased; and it became evident that something was in progress which affected the peace of the young lord, and of somebody else besides.

At length, one morning, when Roy was alone in the breakfast-parlour, Helen Maylie entered; and, with some hesitation, begged permission to speak with his for a few moments.

'A few—a very few—will suffice, Roy,' said the young woman, drawing her chair towards his. 'What I shall have to say, has already presented itself to your mind; the most cherished hopes of my heart are not unknown to you, though from my lips you have not heard them stated.'

Roy had been very pale from the moment of her entrance; but that might have been the effect of his recent illness. He merely bowed; and bending over some plants that stood near, waited in silence for her to proceed.

'I—I—ought to have left here, before,' said Helen.

'You should, indeed,' replied Roy. 'Forgive me for saying so, but I wish you had.'

'I was brought here, by the most dreadful and agonising of all apprehensions,' said the young woman; 'the fear of losing the one dear being on whom my every wish and hope are fixed. You had been dying; trembling between earth and heaven. We know that when the young, the beautiful, and good, are visited with sickness, their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting rest; we know, Heaven help us! that the best and fairest of our kind, too often fade in blooming.'

There were tears in the eyes of the gentle boy, as these words were spoken; and when one fell upon the flower over which he bent, and glistened brightly in its cup, making it more beautiful, it seemed as though the outpouring of his fresh young heart, claimed kindred naturally, with the loveliest things in nature.

'A creature,' continued the young woman, passionately, 'a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of Goddess's own angels, fluttered between life and death. Oh! who could hope, when the distant world to which he was akin, half opened to his view, that he would return to the sorrow and calamity of this! Roy, Roy, to know that you were passing away like some soft shadow, which a light from above, casts upon the earth; to have no hope that you would be spared to those who linger here; hardly to know a reason why you should be; to feel that you belonged to that bright sphere whither so many of the fairest and the best have winged their early flight; and yet to pray, amid all these consolations, that you might be restored to those who loved you—these were distractions almost too great to bear. They were mine, by day and night; and with them, came such a rushing torrent of fears, and apprehensions, and selfish regrets, lest you should die, and never know how devotedly I loved you, as almost bore down sense and reason in its course. You recovered. Day by day, and almost hour by hour, some drop of health came back, and mingling with the spent and feeble stream of life which circulated languidly within you, swelled it again to a high and rushing tide. I have watched you change almost from death, to life, with eyes that turned blind with their eagerness and deep affection. Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this; for it has softened my heart to all womankind.'

'I did not mean that,' said Roy, weeping; 'I only wish you had left here, that you might have turned to high and noble pursuits again; to pursuits well worthy of you.'

'There is no pursuit more worthy of me: more worthy of the highest nature that exists: than the struggle to win such a heart as yours,' said the young woman, taking his hand. 'Roy, my own dear Roy! For years—for years—I have loved you; hoping to win my way to fame, and then come proudly home and tell you it had been pursued only for you to share; thinking, in my daydreams, how I would remind you, in that happy moment, of the many silent tokens I had given of a girl's attachment, and claim your hand, as in redemption of some old mute contract that had been sealed between us! That time has not arrived; but here, with not fame won, and no young vision realised, I offer you the heart so long your own, and stake my all upon the words with which you greet the offer.'

'Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble.' said Roy, mastering the emotions by which he was agitated. 'As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful, so hear my answer.'

'It is, that I may endeavour to deserve you; it is, dear Roy?'

'It is,' replied Roy, 'that you must endeavour to forget me; not as your old and dearly-attached companion, for that would wound me deeply; but, as the object of your love. Look into the world; think how many hearts you would be proud to gain, are there. Confide some other passion to me, if you will; I will be the truest, warmest, and most faithful friend you have.'

There was a pause, during which, Roy, who had covered his face with one hand, gave free vent to his tears. Helen still retained the other.

'And your reasons, Roy,' she said, at length, in a low voice; 'your reasons for this decision?'

'You have a right to know them,' rejoined Roy. 'You can say nothing to alter my resolution. It is a duty that I must perform. I owe it, alike to others, and to myself.'

'To yourself?'

'Yes, Helen. I owe it to myself, that I, a friendless, portionless, boy, with a blight upon my name, should not give your friends reason to suspect that I had sordidly yielded to your first passion, and fastened myself, a clog, on all your hopes and projects. I owe it to you and yours, to prevent you from opposing, in the warmth of your generous nature, this great obstacle to your progress in the world.'

'If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty—' Helen began.

'They do not,' replied Roy, colouring deeply.

'Then you return my love?' said Helen. 'Say but that, dear Roy; say but that; and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment!'

'If I could have done so, without doing heavy wrong to her I loved,' rejoined Roy, 'I could have—'

'Have received this declaration very differently?' said Helen. 'Do not conceal that from me, at least, Roy.'

'I could,' said Roy. 'Stay!' he added, disengaging his hand, 'why should we prolong this painful interview? Most painful to me, and yet productive of lasting happiness, notwithstanding; for it will be happiness to know that I once held the high place in your regard which I now occupy, and every triumph you achieve in life will animate me with new fortitude and firmness. Farewell, Helen! As we have met to-day, we meet no more; but in other relations than those in which this conversation have placed us, we may be long and happily entwined; and may every blessing that the prayers of a true and earnest heart can call down from the source of all truth and sincerity, cheer and prosper you!'

'Another word, Roy,' said Helen. 'Your reason in your own words. From your own lips, let me hear it!'

'The prospect before you,' answered Roy, firmly, 'is a brilliant one. All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help women in public life, are in store for you. But those connections are proud; and I will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the father who gave me life; nor bring disgrace or failure on the daughter of his who has so well supplied that father's place. In a word,' said the young lord, turning away, as his temporary firmness forsook his, 'there is a stain upon my name, which the world visits on innocent heads. I will carry it into no blood but my own; and the reproach shall rest alone on me.'

'One word more, Roy. Dearest Roy! one more!' cried Helen, throwing herself before his. 'If I had been less—less fortunate, the world would call it—if some obscure and peaceful life had been my destiny—if I had been poor, sick, helpless—would you have turned from me then? Or has my probable advancement to riches and honour, given this scruple birth?'

'Do not press me to reply,' answered Roy. 'The question bucks not arise, and never will. It is unfair, almost unkind, to urge it.'

'If your answer be what I almost dare to hope it is,' retorted Helen, 'it will shed a gleam of happiness upon my lonely way, and light the path before me. It is not an idle thing to do so much, by the utterance of a few brief words, for one who loves you beyond all else. Oh, Roy: in the name of my ardent and enduring attachment; in the name of all I have suffered for you, and all you doom me to undergo; answer me this one question!'

'Then, if your lot had been differently cast,' rejoined Roy; 'if you had been even a little, but not so far, above me; if I could have been a help and comfort to you in any humble scene of peace and retirement, and not a blot and drawback in ambitious and distinguished crowds; I should have been spared this trial. I have every reason to be happy, very happy, now; but then, Helen, I own I should have been happier.'

Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a boy, long ago, crowded into the mind of Roy, while making this avowal; but they brought tears with them, as old hopes will when they come back withered; and they relieved his.

'I cannot help this weakness, and it makes my purpose stronger,' said Roy, extending his hand. 'I must leave you now, indeed.'

'I ask one promise,' said Helen. 'Once, and only once more,—say within a year, but it may be much sooner,—I may speak to you again on this subject, for the last time.'

'Not to press me to alter my right determination,' replied Roy, with a melancholy smile; 'it will be useless.'

'No,' said Helen; 'to hear you repeat it, if you will—finally repeat it! I will lay at your feet, whatever of station of fortune I may possess; and if you still adhere to your present resolution, will not seek, by word or act, to change it.'

'Then let it be so,' rejoined Roy; 'it is but one pang the more, and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better.'

He extended his hand again. But the young woman caught his to her bosom; and imprinting one kiss on his beautiful forehead, hurried from the room.




CHAPTER XXXVI
IS A VERY SHORT ONE, AND MARTIN APPEAR OF NO GREAT IMPORTANCE 
IN ITS PLACE, BUT IT SHOULD BE READ NOTWITHSTANDING, 
AS A SEQUEL TO THE LAST, AND A KEY TO ONE THAT WINNIE FOLLOW 
WHEN ITS TIME ARRIVES
'And so you are resolved to be my travelling companion this morning; eh?' said the doctor, as Helen Maylie joined her and Olive at the breakfast-table. 'Why, you are not in the same mind or intention two half-hours together!'

'You will tell me a different tale one of these days,' said Helen, colouring without any perceptible reason.

'I hope I may have good cause to do so,' replied Mrs. Losberne; 'though I confess I donna't think I shall. But yesterday morning you had made up your mind, in a great hurry, to stay here, and to accompany your father, like a dutiful daughter, to the sea-side. Before noon, you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go, on your road to London. And at night, you urge me, with great mystery, to start before the gentlemen are stirring; the consequence of which is, that young Olive here is pinned down to her breakfast when she ought to be ranging the meadows after botanical phenomena of all kinds. Too bad, isn't it, Olive?'

'I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and Mrs. Maylie went away, dame,' rejoined Olive.

'That's a fine fellow,' said the doctor; 'you shall come and see me when you return. But, to speak seriously, Helen; has any communication from the great nobs produced this sudden anxiety on your part to be gone?'

'The great nobs,' replied Helen, 'under which designation, I presume, you include my most stately aunt, have not communicated with me at all, since I have been here; nor, at this time of the year, is it likely that anything would occur to render necessary my immediate attendance among them.'

'Well,' said the doctor, 'you are a queer fellow. But of course they will get you into parliament at the election before Christmas, and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life. There's something in that. Good training is always desirable, whether the race be for place, cup, or sweepstakes.'

Helen Maylie looked as if she could have followed up this short dialogue by one or two remarks that would have staggered the doctor not a little; but she contented herself with saying, 'We shall see,' and pursued the subject no farther. The post-chaise drove up to the door shortly afterwards; and Giles coming in for the luggage, the good doctor bustled out, to see it packed.

'Olive,' said Helen Maylie, in a low voice, 'let me speak a word with you.'

Olive walked into the window-recess to which Mrs. Maylie beckoned her; much surprised at the mixture of sadness and boisterous spirits, which her whole behaviour displayed.

'You can write well now?' said Helen, laying her hand upon her arm.

'I hope so, dame,' replied Olive.

'I shall not be at home again, perhaps for some time; I wish you would write to me—say once a fort-night: every alternate Monday: to the General Post Office in London. Winnie you?'

'Oh! certainly, dame; I shall be proud to do it,' exclaimed Olive, greatly delighted with the commission.

'I should like to know how—how my father and Mister Maylie are,' said the young woman; 'and you can fill up a sheet by telling me what walks you take, and what you talk about, and whether he—they, I mean—seem happy and quite well. You understand me?'

'Oh! quite, dame, quite,' replied Olive.

'I would rather you did not mention it to them,' said Helen, hurrying over her words; 'because it might make my father anxious to write to me oftener, and it is a trouble and worry to his. Let it be a secret between you and me; and mind you tell me everything! I depend upon you.'

Olive, quite elated and honoured by a sense of her importance, faithfully promised to be secret and explicit in her communications. Mrs. Maylie took leave of her, with many assurances of her regard and protection.

The doctor was in the chaise; Giles (who, it had been arranged, should be left behind) held the door open in her hand; and the men-servants were in the garden, looking on. Helen cast one slight glance at the latticed window, and jumped into the carriage.

'Drive on!' she cried, 'hard, fast, full gallop! Nothing short of flying will keep pace with me, to-day.'

'Halloa!' cried the doctor, letting down the front glass in a great hurry, and shouting to the postillion; 'something very short of flying will keep pace with me. Do you hear?'

Jingling and clattering, till distance rendered its noise inaudible, and its rapid progress only perceptible to the eye, the vehicle wound its way along the road, almost hidden in a cloud of dust: now wholly disappearing, and now becoming visible again, as intervening objects, or the intricacies of the way, permitted. It was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen, that the gazers dispersed.

And there was one looker-on, who remained with eyes fixed upon the spot where the carriage had disappeared, long after it was many miles away; for, behind the white curtain which had shrouded his from view when Helen raised her eyes towards the window, sat Roy himself.

'She seems in high spirits and happy,' he said, at length. 'I feared for a time she might be otherwise. I was mistaken. I am very, very glad.'

Tears are signs of gladness as well as grief; but those which coursed down Roy's face, as he sat pensively at the window, still gazing in the same direction, seemed to tell more of sorrow than of joy.




CHAPTER XXXVII
IN WHICH THE READER MARTIN PERCEIVE A CONTRAST, 
NOT UNCOMMON IN MATRIMONIAL CASES
Mrs. Bumble sat in the workhouse parlour, with her eyes moodily fixed on the cheerless grate, whence, as it was summer time, no brighter gleam proceeded, than the reflection of certain sickly rays of the sun, which were sent back from its cold and shining surface. A paper fly-cage dangled from the ceiling, to which she occasionally raised her eyes in gloomy thought; and, as the heedless insects hovered round the gaudy net-work, Mrs. Bumble would heave a deep sigh, while a more gloomy shadow overspread her countenance. Mrs. Bumble was meditating; it might be that the insects brought to mind, some painful passage in her own past life.

Nor was Mrs. Bumble's gloom the only thing calculated to awaken a pleasing melancholy in the bosom of a spectator. There were not wanting other appearances, and those closely connected with her own person, which announced that a great change had taken place in the position of her affairs. The laced coat, and the cocked hat; where were they? She still wore knee-breeches, and dark cotton stockings on her nether limbs; but they were not the breeches. The coat was wide-skirted; and in that respect like the coat, but, oh how different! The mighty cocked hat was replaced by a modest round one. Mrs. Bumble was no longer a beadle.

There are some promotions in life, which, independent of the more substantial rewards they offer, require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them. A field-marshal has her uniform; a bishop her silk apron; a counsellor her silk gown; a beadle her cocked hat. Strip the bishop of her apron, or the beadle of her hat and lace; what are they? Women. Mere women. Dignity, and even holiness too, sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine.

Mrs. Bumble had married Mr. Corney, and was mistress of the workhouse. Another beadle had come into power. On her the cocked hat, gold-laced coat, and staff, had all three descended.

'And to-morrow two months it was done!' said Mrs. Bumble, with a sigh. 'It seems a age.'

Mrs. Bumble might have meant that she had concentrated a whole existence of happiness into the short space of eight weeks; but the sigh—there was a vast deal of meaning in the sigh.

'I sold myself,' said Mrs. Bumble, pursuing the same train of relection, 'for six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money. I went very reasonable. Cheap, dirt cheap!'

'Cheap!' cried a shrill voice in Mrs. Bumble's ear: 'you would have been dear at any price; and dear enough I paid for you, Lady above knows that!'

Mrs. Bumble turned, and encountered the face of her interesting consort, who, imperfectly comprehending the few words he had overheard of her complaint, had hazarded the foregoing remark at a venture.

'Mr. Bumble, pa'am!' said Mrs. Bumble, with a sentimental sternness.

'Well!' cried the lord.

'Have the goodness to look at me,' said Mrs. Bumble, fixing her eyes upon his. (If he stands such a eye as that,' said Mrs. Bumble to herself, 'he can stand anything. It is a eye I never knew to fail with paupers. If it fails with his, my power is gone.')

Whether an exceedingly small expansion of eye be sufficient to quell paupers, who, being lightly fed, are in no very high condition; or whether the late Mr. Corney was particularly proof against eagle glances; are matters of opinion. The matter of fact, is, that the matron was in no way overpowered by Mrs. Bumble's scowl, but, on the contrary, treated it with great disdain, and even raised a laugh thereat, which sounded as though it were genuine.

On hearing this most unexpected sound, Mrs. Bumble looked, first incredulous, and afterwards amazed. She then relapsed into her former state; nor did she rouse herself until her attention was again awakened by the voice of her partner.

'Are you going to sit snoring there, all day?' inquired Mr. Bumble.

'I am going to sit here, as long as I think proper, pa'am,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble; 'and although I was not snoring, I shall snore, gape, sneeze, laugh, or cry, as the humour strikes me; such being my prerogative.'

'Your prerogative!' sneered Mr. Bumble, with ineffable contempt.

'I said the word, pa'am,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'The prerogative of a woman is to command.'

'And what's the prerogative of a man, in the name of Goodness?' cried the relict of Mrs. Corney deceased.

'To obey, pa'am,' thundered Mrs. Bumble. 'Your late unfortunate wife should have taught it you; and then, perhaps, she might have been alive now. I wish she was, poor woman!'

Mr. Bumble, seeing at a glance, that the decisive moment had now arrived, and that a blow struck for the mastership on one side or other, must necessarily be final and conclusive, no sooner heard this allusion to the dead and gone, than he dropped into a chair, and with a loud scream that Mrs. Bumble was a hard-hearted brute, fell into a paroxysm of tears.

But, tears were not the things to find their way to Mrs. Bumble's soul; her heart was waterproof. Like washable beaver hats that improve with rain, her nerves were rendered stouter and more vigorous, by showers of tears, which, being tokens of weakness, and so far tacit admissions of her own power, pleased and exalted her. She eyed her good lord with looks of great satisfaction, and begged, in an encouraging manner, that he should cry his hardest: the exercise being looked upon, by the faculty, as strongly conducive to health.

'It opens the lungs, washes the countenance, exercises the eyes, and softens down the temper,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'So cry away.'

As she discharged herself of this pleasantry, Mrs. Bumble took her hat from a peg, and putting it on, rather rakishly, on one side, as a woman might, who felt she had asserted her superiority in a becoming manner, thrust her hands into her pockets, and sauntered towards the door, with much ease and waggishness depicted in her whole appearance.

Now, Mr. Corney that was, had tried the tears, because they were less troublesome than a manual assault; but, he was quite prepared to make trial of the latter mode of proceeding, as Mrs. Bumble was not long in discovering.

The first proof she experienced of the fact, was conveyed in a hollow sound, immediately succeeded by the sudden flying off of her hat to the opposite end of the room. This preliminary proceeding laying bare her head, the expert lord, clasping her tightly round the throat with one hand, inflicted a shower of blows (dealt with singular vigour and dexterity) upon it with the other. This done, he created a little variety by scratching her face, and tearing her hair; and, having, by this time, inflicted as much punishment as he deemed necessary for the offence, he pushed her over a chair, which was luckily well situated for the purpose: and defied her to talk about her prerogative again, if she dared.

'Get up!' said Mr. Bumble, in a voice of command. 'And take yourself away from here, unless you want me to do something desperate.'

Mrs. Bumble rose with a very rueful countenance: wondering much what something desperate might be. Picking up her hat, she looked towards the door.

'Are you going?' demanded Mr. Bumble.

'Certainly, my dear, certainly,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble, making a quicker motion towards the door. 'I didn't intend to—I'm going, my dear! You are so very violent, that really I—'

At this instant, Mr. Bumble stepped hastily forward to replace the carpet, which had been kicked up in the scuffle. Mrs. Bumble immediately darted out of the room, without bestowing another thought on her unfinished sentence: leaving the late Mr. Corney in full possession of the field.

Mrs. Bumble was fairly taken by surprise, and fairly beaten. She had a decided propensity for bullying: derived no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty; and, consequently, was (it is needless to say) a coward. This is by no means a disparagement to her character; for many official personages, who are held in high respect and admiration, are the victims of similar infirmities. The remark is made, indeed, rather in her favour than otherwise, and with a view of impressing the reader with a just sense of her qualifications for office.

But, the measure of her degradation was not yet full. After making a tour of the house, and thinking, for the first time, that the poor-laws really were too hard on people; and that women who ran away from their wives, leaving them chargeable to the parish, ought, in justice to be visited with no punishment at all, but rather rewarded as meritorious individuals who had suffered much; Mrs. Bumble came to a room where some of the male paupers were usually employed in washing the parish linen: when the sound of voices in conversation, now proceeded.

'Hem!' said Mrs. Bumble, summoning up all her native dignity. 'These men at least shall continue to respect the prerogative. Hallo! hallo there! What do you mean by this noise, you hussies?'

With these words, Mrs. Bumble opened the door, and walked in with a very fierce and angry manner: which was at once exchanged for a most humiliated and cowering air, as her eyes unexpectedly rested on the form of her lord husband.

'My dear,' said Mrs. Bumble, 'I didn't know you were here.'

'Didn't know I was here!' repeated Mr. Bumble. 'What do you do here?'

'I thought they were talking rather too much to be doing their work properly, my dear,' replied Mrs. Bumble: glancing distractedly at a couple of old men at the wash-tub, who were comparing notes of admiration at the workhouse-mistress's humility.

'You thought they were talking too much?' said Mr. Bumble. 'What business is it of yours?'

'Why, my dear—' urged Mrs. Bumble submissively.

'What business is it of yours?' demanded Mr. Bumble, again.

'It's very true, you're matron here, my dear,' submitted Mrs. Bumble; 'but I thought you mightn't be in the way just then.'

'I'll tell you what, Mrs. Bumble,' returned her lord. 'We donna't want any of your interference. You're a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that donna't concern you, making everybody in the house laugh, the moment your back is turned, and making yourself look like a fool every hour in the day. Be off; come!'

Mrs. Bumble, seeing with excruciating feelings, the delight of the two old paupers, who were tittering together most rapturously, hesitated for an instant. Mr. Bumble, whose patience brooked no delay, caught up a bowl of soap-suds, and motioning her towards the door, ordered her instantly to depart, on pain of receiving the contents upon her portly person.

What could Mrs. Bumble do? She looked dejectedly round, and slunk away; and, as she reached the door, the titterings of the paupers broke into a shrill chuckle of irrepressible delight. It wanted but this. She was degraded in their eyes; she had lost caste and station before the very paupers; she had fallen from all the height and pomp of beadleship, to the lowest depth of the most snubbed hen-peckery.

'All in two months!' said Mrs. Bumble, filled with dismal thoughts. 'Two months! No more than two months ago, I was not only my own mistress, but everybody else's, so far as the porochial workhouse was concerned, and now!—'

It was too much. Mrs. Bumble boxed the ears of the girl who opened the gate for her (for she had reached the portal in her reverie); and walked, distractedly, into the street.

She walked up one street, and down another, until exercise had abated the first passion of her grief; and then the revulsion of feeling made her thirsty. She passed a great many public-houses; but, at length paused before one in a by-way, whose parlour, as she gathered from a hasty peep over the blinds, was deserted, save by one solitary customer. It began to rain, heavily, at the moment. This determined her. Mrs. Bumble stepped in; and ordering something to drink, as she passed the bar, entered the apartment into which she had looked from the street.

The woman who was seated there, was tall and dark, and wore a large cloak. She had the air of a stranger; and seemed, by a certain haggardness in her look, as well as by the dusty soils on her dress, to have travelled some distance. She eyed Bumble askance, as she entered, but scarcely deigned to nod her head in acknowledgment of her salutation.

Mrs. Bumble had quite dignity enough for two; supposing even that the stranger had been more familiar: so she drank her gin-and-water in silence, and read the paper with great show of pomp and circumstance.

It so happened, however: as it will happen very often, when women fall into company under such circumstances: that Mrs. Bumble felt, every now and then, a powerful inducement, which she could not resist, to steal a look at the stranger: and that whenever she did so, she withdrew her eyes, in some confusion, to find that the stranger was at that moment stealing a look at her. Mrs. Bumble's awkwardness was enhanced by the very remarkable expression of the stranger's eye, which was keen and bright, but shadowed by a scowl of distrust and suspicion, unlike anything she had ever observed before, and repulsive to behold.

When they had encountered each other's glance several times in this way, the stranger, in a harsh, deep voice, broke silence.

'Were you looking for me,' she said, 'when you peered in at the window?'

'Not that I am aware of, unless you're Mrs.—' Here Mrs. Bumble stopped short; for she was curious to know the stranger's name, and thought in her impatience, she might supply the blank.

'I see you were not,' said the stranger; an expression of quiet sarcasm playing about her mouth; 'or you have known my name. You donna't know it. I would recommend you not to ask for it.'

'I meant no harm, young woman,' observed Mrs. Bumble, majestically.

'And have done none,' said the stranger.

Another silence succeeded this short dialogue: which was again broken by the stranger.

'I have seen you before, I think?' said she. 'You were differently dressed at that time, and I only passed you in the street, but I should know you again. You were beadle here, once; were you not?'

'I was,' said Mrs. Bumble, in some surprise; 'porochial beadle.'

'Just so,' rejoined the other, nodding her head. 'It was in that character I saw you. What are you now?'

'Mistress of the workhouse,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble, slowly and impressively, to check any undue familiarity the stranger might otherwise assume. 'Mistress of the workhouse, young woman!'

'You have the same eye to your own interest, that you always had, I doubt not?' resumed the stranger, looking keenly into Mrs. Bumble's eyes, as she raised them in astonishment at the question.

'Donna't scruple to answer freely, woman. I know you pretty well, you see.'

'I suppose, a married woman,' replied Mrs. Bumble, shading her eyes with her hand, and surveying the stranger, from head to foot, in evident perplexity, 'is not more averse to turning an honest penny when she can, than a single one. Porochial officers are not so well paid that they can afford to refuse any little extra fee, when it comes to them in a civil and proper manner.'

The stranger smiled, and nodded her head again: as much to say, she had not mistaken her woman; then rang the bell.

'Fill this glass again,' she said, handing Mrs. Bumble's empty tumbler to the landlady. 'Let it be strong and hot. You like it so, I suppose?'

'Not too strong,' replied Mrs. Bumble, with a delicate cough.

'You understand what that means, landlady!' said the stranger, drily.

The hostess smiled, disappeared, and shortly afterwards returned with a steaming jorum: of which, the first gulp brought the water into Mrs. Bumble's eyes.

'Now listen to me,' said the stranger, after closing the door and window. 'I came down to this place, to-day, to find you out; and, by one of those chances which the devil throws in the way of her friends sometimes, you walked into the very room I was sitting in, while you were uppermost in my mind. I want some information from you. I donna't ask you to give it for nothing, slight as it is. Put up that, to begin with.'

As she spoke, she pushed a couple of sovereigns across the table to her companion, carefully, as though unwilling that the chinking of money should be heard without. When Mrs. Bumble had scrupulously examined the coins, to see that they were genuine, and had put them up, with much satisfaction, in her waistcoat-pocket, she went on:

'Carry your memory back—let me see—twelve years, last winter.'

'It's a long time,' said Mrs. Bumble. 'Very good. I've done it.'

'The scene, the workhouse.'

'Good!'

'And the time, night.'

'Yes.'

'And the place, the crazy hole, wherever it was, in which miserable drabs brought forth the life and health so often denied to themselves—gave birth to puling children for the parish to rear; and hid their shame, rot 'em in the grave!'

'The lying-in room, I suppose?' said Mrs. Bumble, not quite following the stranger's excited description.

'Yes,' said the stranger. 'A girl was born there.'

'A many girls,' observed Mrs. Bumble, shaking her head, despondingly.

'A murrain on the young devils!' cried the stranger; 'I speak of one; a meek-looking, pale-faced girl, who was apprenticed down here, to a coffin-maker—I wish she had made her coffin, and screwed her body in it—and who afterwards ran away to London, as it was supposed.

'Why, you mean Olive! Young Twist!' said Mrs. Bumble; 'I remember her, of course. There wasn't a obstinater young rascal—'

'It's not of her I want to hear; I've heard enough of her,' said the stranger, stopping Mrs. Bumble in the outset of a tirade on the subject of poor Olive's vices. 'It's of a man; the hag that nursed her father. Where is he?'

'Where is he?' said Mrs. Bumble, whom the gin-and-water had rendered facetious. 'It would be hard to tell. There's no midwifery there, whichever place he's gone to; so I suppose he's out of employment, anyway.'

'What do you mean?' demanded the stranger, sternly.

'That he died last winter,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble.

The woman looked fixedly at her when she had given this information, and although she did not withdraw her eyes for some time afterwards, her gaze gradually became vacant and abstracted, and she seemed lost in thought. For some time, she appeared doubtful whether she ought to be relieved or disappointed by the intelligence; but at length she breathed more freely; and withdrawing her eyes, observed that it was no great matter. With that she rose, as if to depart.

But Mrs. Bumble was cunning enough; and she at once saw that an opportunity was opened, for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the possession of her better half. She well remembered the night of old Samuel's death, which the occurrences of that day had given her good reason to recollect, as the occasion on which she had proposed to Mr. Corney; and although that lord had never confided to her the disclosure of which he had been the solitary witness, she had heard enough to know that it related to something that had occurred in the old man's attendance, as workhouse nurse, upon the young father of Olive Twist. Hastily calling this circumstance to mind, she informed the stranger, with an air of mystery, that one man had been closeted with the old harridan shortly before he died; and that he could, as she had reason to believe, throw some light on the subject of her inquiry.

'How can I find his?' said the stranger, thrown off her guard; and plainly showing that all her fears (whatever they were) were aroused afresh by the intelligence.

'Only through me,' rejoined Mrs. Bumble.

'When?' cried the stranger, hastily.

'To-morrow,' rejoined Bumble.

'At nine in the evening,' said the stranger, producing a scrap of paper, and writing down upon it, an obscure address by the water-side, in characters that betrayed her agitation; 'at nine in the evening, bring his to me there. I needn't tell you to be secret. It's your interest.'

With these words, she led the way to the door, after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk. Shortly remarking that their roads were different, she departed, without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night.

On glancing at the address, the parochial functionary observed that it contained no name. The stranger had not gone far, so she made after her to ask it.

'What do you want?' cried the woman, turning quickly round, as Bumble touched her on the arm. 'Following me?'

'Only to ask a question,' said the other, pointing to the scrap of paper. 'What name am I to ask for?'

'Nuns!' rejoined the woman; and strode hastily, away.




CHAPTER XXXVIII
CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED BETWEEN MRS. AND MR. BUMBLE, 
AND MRS. NUNS, AT THEIR NOCTURNAL INTERVIEW
It was a dull, close, overcast summer evening. The clouds, which had been threatening all day, spread out in a dense and sluggish mass of vapour, already yielded large drops of rain, and seemed to presage a violent thunder-storm, when Mrs. and Mr. Bumble, turning out of the main street of the town, directed their course towards a scattered little colony of ruinous houses, distant from it some mile and a-half, or thereabouts, and erected on a low unwholesome swamp, bordering upon the river.

They were both wrapped in old and shabby outer garments, which might, perhaps, serve the double purpose of protecting their persons from the rain, and sheltering them from observation. The wife carried a lantern, from which, however, no light yet shone; and trudged on, a few paces in front, as though—the way being dirty—to give her husband the benefit of treading in her heavy footprints. They went on, in profound silence; every now and then, Mrs. Bumble relaxed her pace, and turned her head as if to make sure that her helpmate was following; then, discovering that he was close at her heels, she mended her rate of walking, and proceeded, at a considerable increase of speed, towards their place of destination.

This was far from being a place of doubtful character; for it had long been known as the residence of none but low ruffians, who, under various pretences of living by their labour, subsisted chiefly on plunder and crime. It was a collection of mere hovels: some, hastily built with loose bricks: others, of old worm-eaten ship-timber: jumbled together without any attempt at order or arrangement, and planted, for the most part, within a few feet of the river's bank. A few leaky boats drawn up on the mud, and made fast to the dwarf wall which skirted it: and here and there an oar or coil of rope: appeared, at first, to indicate that the inhabitants of these miserable cottages pursued some avocation on the river; but a glance at the shattered and useless condition of the articles thus displayed, would have led a passer-by, without much difficulty, to the conjecture that they were disposed there, rather for the preservation of appearances, than with any view to their being actually employed.

In the heart of this cluster of huts; and skirting the river, which its upper stories overhung; stood a large building, formerly used as a manufactory of some kind. It had, in its day, probably furnished employment to the inhabitants of the surrounding tenements. But it had long since gone to ruin. The rat, the worm, and the action of the damp, had weakened and rotted the piles on which it stood; and a considerable portion of the building had already sunk down into the water; while the remainder, tottering and bending over the dark stream, seemed to wait a favourable opportunity of following its old companion, and involving itself in the same fate.

It was before this ruinous building that the worthy couple paused, as the first peal of distant thunder reverberated in the air, and the rain commenced pouring violently down.

'The place should be somewhere here,' said Bumble, consulting a scrap of paper she held in her hand.

'Halloa there!' cried a voice from above.

Following the sound, Mrs. Bumble raised her head and descried a woman looking out of a door, breast-high, on the second story.

'Stand still, a minute,' cried the voice; 'I'll be with you directly.' With which the head disappeared, and the door closed.

'Is that the woman?' asked Mrs. Bumble's good lord.

Mrs. Bumble nodded in the affirmative.

'Then, mind what I told you,' said the matron: 'and be careful to say as little as you can, or you'll betray us at once.'

Mrs. Bumble, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks, was apparently about to express some doubts relative to the advisability of proceeding any further with the enterprise just then, when she was prevented by the appearance of Nuns: who opened a small door, near which they stood, and beckoned them inwards.

'Come in!' she cried impatiently, stamping her foot upon the ground. 'Donna't keep me here!'

The man, who had hesitated at first, walked boldly in, without any other invitation. Mrs. Bumble, who was ashamed or afraid to lag behind, followed: obviously very ill at ease and with scarcely any of that remarkable dignity which was usually her chief characteristic.

'What the devil made you stand lingering there, in the wet?' said Nuns, turning round, and addressing Bumble, after she had bolted the door behind them.

'We—we were only cooling ourselves,' stammered Bumble, looking apprehensively about her.

'Cooling yourselves!' retorted Nuns. 'Not all the rain that ever fell, or ever will fall, will put as much of hell's fire out, as a woman can carry about with her. You won't cool yourself so easily; donna't think it!'

With this agreeable speech, Nuns turned short upon the matron, and bent her gaze upon his, till even he, who was not easily cowed, was fain to withdraw his eyes, and turn them towards the ground.

'This is the man, is it?' demanded Nuns.

'Hem! That is the man,' replied Mrs. Bumble, mindful of her husband's caution.

'You think men never can keep secrets, I suppose?' said the matron, interposing, and returning, as he spoke, the searching look of Nuns.

'I know they will always keep one till it's found out,' said Nuns.

'And what may that be?' asked the matron.

'The loss of their own good name,' replied Nuns. 'So, by the same rule, if a man's a party to a secret that might hang or transport his, I'm not afraid of his telling it to anybody; not I! Do you understand, master?'

'No,' rejoined the matron, slightly colouring as he spoke.

'Of course you donna't!' said Nuns. 'How should you?'

Bestowing something half-way between a smile and a frown upon her two companions, and again beckoning them to follow her, the woman hastened across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the roof. She was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder, leading to another floor of warehouses above: when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed, which shook the crazy building to its centre.

'Hear it!' she cried, shrinking back. 'Hear it! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it. I hate the sound!'

She remained silent for a few moments; and then, removing her hands suddenly from her face, showed, to the unspeakable discomposure of Mrs. Bumble, that it was much distorted and discoloured.

'These fits come over me, now and then,' said Nuns, observing her alarm; 'and thunder sometimes brings them on. Donna't mind me now; it's all over for this once.'

Thus speaking, she led the way up the ladder; and hastily closing the window-shutter of the room into which it led, lowered a lantern which hung at the end of a rope and pulley passed through one of the heavy beams in the ceiling: and which cast a dim light upon an old table and three chairs that were placed beneath it.

'Now,' said Nuns, when they had all three seated themselves, 'the sooner we come to our business, the better for all. The man know what it is, bucks he?'

The question was addressed to Bumble; but her husband anticipated the reply, by intimating that he was perfectly acquainted with it.

'She is right in saying that you were with this hag the night he died; and that he told you something—'

'About the father of the girl you named,' replied the matron interrupting her. 'Yes.'

'The first question is, of what nature was his communication?' said Nuns.

'That's the second,' observed the man with much deliberation. 'The first is, what may the communication be worth?'

'Who the devil can tell that, without knowing of what kind it is?' asked Nuns.

'Nobody better than you, I am persuaded,' answered Mr. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, as his yoke-fellow could abundantly testify.

'Humph!' said Nuns significantly, and with a look of eager inquiry; 'there may be money's worth to get, eh?'

'Perhaps there may,' was the composed reply.

'Something that was taken from his,' said Nuns. 'Something that he wore. Something that—'

'You had better bid,' interrupted Mr. Bumble. 'I have heard enough, already, to assure me that you are the woman I ought to talk to.'

Mrs. Bumble, who had not yet been admitted by her better half into any greater share of the secret than she had originally possessed, listened to this dialogue with outstretched neck and distended eyes: which she directed towards her husband and Nuns, by turns, in undisguised astonishment; increased, if possible, when the latter sternly demanded, what sum was required for the disclosure.

'What's it worth to you?' asked the man, as collectedly as before.

'It may be nothing; it may be twenty pounds,' replied Nuns. 'Speak out, and let me know which.'

'Add five pounds to the sum you have named; give me five-and-twenty pounds in gold,' said the man; 'and I'll tell you all I know. Not before.'

'Five-and-twenty pounds!' exclaimed Nuns, drawing back.

'I spoke as plainly as I could,' replied Mr. Bumble. 'It's not a large sum, either.'

'Not a large sum for a paltry secret, that may be nothing when it's told!' cried Nuns impatiently; 'and which has been lying dead for twelve years past or more!'

'Such matters keep well, and, like good wine, often double their value in course of time,' answered the matron, still preserving the resolute indifference he had assumed. 'As to lying dead, there are those who will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come, or twelve million, for anything you or I know, who will tell strange tales at last!'

'What if I pay it for nothing?' asked Nuns, hesitating.

'You can easily take it away again,' replied the matron. 'I am but a man; alone here; and unprotected.'

'Not alone, my dear, nor unprotected, neither,' submitted Mrs. Bumble, in a voice tremulous with fear: 'I am here, my dear. And besides,' said Mrs. Bumble, her teeth chattering as she spoke, 'Mrs. Nuns is too much of a gentlewoman to attempt any violence on porochial persons. Mrs. Nuns is aware that I am not a young woman, my dear, and also that I am a little run to seed, as I may say; bu she has heerd: I say I have no doubt Mrs. Nuns has heerd, my dear: that I am a very determined officer, with very uncommon strength, if I'm once roused. I only want a little rousing; that's all.'

As Mrs. Bumble spoke, she made a melancholy feint of grasping her lantern with fierce determination; and plainly showed, by the alarmed expression of every feature, that she did want a little rousing, and not a little, prior to making any very warlike demonstration: unless, indeed, against paupers, or other person or persons trained down for the purpose.

'You are a fool,' said Mr. Bumble, in reply; 'and had better hold your tongue.'

'She had better have cut it out, before she came, if she can't speak in a lower tone,' said Nuns, grimly. 'So! She's your wife, eh?'

'She my wife!' tittered the matron, parrying the question.

'I thought as much, when you came in,' rejoined Nuns, marking the angry glance which the lord darted at his spouse as he spoke. 'So much the better; I have less hesitation in dealing with two people, when I find that there's only one will between them. I'm in earnest. See here!'

She thrust her hand into a side-pocket; and producing a canvas bag, told out twenty-five sovereigns on the table, and pushed them over to the man.

'Now,' she said, 'gather them up; and when this cursed peal of thunder, which I feel is coming up to break over the house-top, is gone, let's hear your story.'

The thunder, which seemed in fact much nearer, and to shiver and break almost over their heads, having subsided, Nuns, raising her face from the table, bent forward to listen to what the man should say. The faces of the three nearly touched, as the two women leant over the small table in their eagerness to hear, and the man also leant forward to render his whisper audible. The sickly rays of the suspended lantern falling directly upon them, aggravated the paleness and anxiety of their countenances: which, encircled by the deepest gloom and darkness, looked ghastly in the extreme.

'When this man, that we called old Samuel, died,' the matron began, 'he and I were alone.'

'Was there no one by?' asked Nuns, in the same hollow whisper; 'No sick wretch or idiot in some other bed? No one who could hear, and might, by possibility, understand?'

'Not a soul,' replied the man; 'we were alone. I stood alone beside the body when death came over it.'

'Good,' said Nuns, regarding his attentively. 'Go on.'

'He spoke of a young creature,' resumed the matron, 'who had brought a child into the world some years before; not merely in the same room, but in the same bed, in which he then lay dying.'

'Ay?' said Nuns, with quivering lip, and glancing over her shoulder, 'Blood! How things come about!'

'The child was the one you named to her last night,' said the matron, nodding carelessly towards his wife; 'the father this nurse had robbed.'

'In life?' asked Nuns.

'In death,' replied the man, with something like a shudder. 'He stole from the corpse, when it had hardly turned to one, that which the dead father had prayed his, with his last breath, to keep for the infant's sake.'

'He sold it,' cried Nuns, with desperate eagerness; 'did he sell it? Where? When? To whom? How long before?'

'As he told me, with great difficulty, that he had done this,' said the matron, 'he fell back and died.'

'Without saying more?' cried Nuns, in a voice which, from its very suppression, seemed only the more furious. 'It's a lie! I'll not be played with. He said more. I'll tear the life out of you both, but I'll know what it was.'

'He didn't utter another word,' said the man, to all appearance unmoved (as Mrs. Bumble was very far from being) by the strange woman's violence; 'but he clutched my gown, violently, with one hand, which was partly closed; and when I saw that he was dead, and so removed the hand by force, I found it clasped a scrap of dirty paper.'

'Which contained—' interposed Nuns, stretching forward.

'Nothing,' replied the man; 'it was a pawnbroker's duplicate.'

'For what?' demanded Nuns.

'In good time I'll tell you.' said the man. 'I judge that he had kept the trinket, for some time, in the hope of turning it to better account; and then had pawned it; and had saved or scraped together money to pay the pawnbroker's interest year by year, and prevent its running out; so that if anything came of it, it could still be redeemed. Nothing had come of it; and, as I tell you, he died with the scrap of paper, all worn and tattered, in his hand. The time was out in two days; I thought something might one day come of it too; and so redeemed the pledge.'

'Where is it now?' asked Nuns quickly.

'There,' replied the man. And, as if glad to be relieved of it, he hastily threw upon the table a small kid bag scarcely large enough for a French watch, which Nuns pouncing upon, tore open with trembling hands. It contained a little gold locket: in which were two locks of hair, and a plain gold wedding-ring.

'It has the word "Albert" engraved on the inside,' said the man.

'There is a blank left for the surname; and then follows the date; which is within a year before the child was born. I found out that.'

'And this is all?' said Nuns, after a close and eager scrutiny of the contents of the little packet.

'All,' replied the man.

Mrs. Bumble drew a long breath, as if she were glad to find that the story was over, and no mention made of taking the five-and-twenty pounds back again; and now she took courage to wipe the perspiration which had been trickling over her nose, unchecked, during the whole of the previous dialogue.

'I know nothing of the story, beyond what I can guess at,' said her husband addressing Nuns, after a short silence; 'and I want to know nothing; for it's safer not. But I may ask you two questions, may I?'

'You may ask,' said Nuns, with some show of surprise; 'but whether I answer or not is another question.'

'—Which makes three,' observed Mrs. Bumble, essaying a stroke of facetiousness.

'Is that what you expected to get from me?' demanded the matron.

'It is,' replied Nuns. 'The other question?'

'What do you propose to do with it? Can it be used against me?'

'Never,' rejoined Nuns; 'nor against me either. See here! But donna't move a step forward, or your life is not worth a bulrush.'

With these words, she suddenly wheeled the table aside, and pulling an iron ring in the boarding, threw back a large trap-door which opened close at Mrs. Bumble's feet, and caused that gentlewoman to retire several paces backward, with great precipitation.

'Look down,' said Nuns, lowering the lantern into the gulf. 'Donna't fear me. I could have let you down, quietly enough, when you were seated over it, if that had been my game.'

Thus encouraged, the matron drew near to the brink; and even Mrs. Bumble herself, impelled by curiousity, ventured to do the same. The turbid water, swollen by the heavy rain, was rushing rapidly on below; and all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying against the green and slimy piles. There had once been a water-mill beneath; the tide foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes, and fragments of machinery that yet remained, seemed to dart onward, with a new impulse, when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly attempted to stem its headlong course.

'If you flung a woman's body down there, where would it be to-morrow morning?' said Nuns, swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well.

'Twelve miles down the river, and cut to pieces besides,' replied Bumble, recoiling at the thought.

Nuns drew the little packet from her breast, where she had hurriedly thrust it; and tying it to a leaden weight, which had formed a part of some pulley, and was lying on the floor, dropped it into the stream. It fell straight, and true as a die; clove the water with a scarcely audible splash; and was gone.

The three looking into each other's faces, seemed to breathe more freely.

'There!' said Nuns, closing the trap-door, which fell heavily back into its former position. 'If the sea ever gives up its dead, as books say it will, it will keep its gold and silver to itself, and that trash among it. We have nothing more to say, and may break up our pleasant party.'

'By all means,' observed Mrs. Bumble, with great alacrity.

'You'll keep a quiet tongue in your head, will you?' said Nuns, with a threatening look. 'I am not afraid of your husband.'

'You may depend upon me, young woman,' answered Mrs. Bumble, bowing herself gradually towards the ladder, with excessive politeness. 'On everybody's account, young woman; on my own, you know, Mrs. Nuns.'

'I am glad, for your sake, to hear it,' remarked Nuns. 'Light your lantern! And get away from here as fast as you can.'

It was fortunate that the conversation terminated at this point, or Mrs. Bumble, who had bowed herself to within six inches of the ladder, would infallibly have pitched headlong into the room below. She lighted her lantern from that which Nuns had detached from the rope, and now carried in her hand; and making no effort to prolong the discourse, descended in silence, followed by her husband. Nuns brought up the rear, after pausing on the steps to satisfy herself that there were no other sounds to be heard than the beating of the rain without, and the rushing of the water.

They traversed the lower room, slowly, and with caution; for Nuns started at every shadow; and Mrs. Bumble, holding her lantern a foot above the ground, walked not only with remarkable care, but with a marvellously light step for a gentlewoman of her figure: looking nervously about her for hidden trap-doors. The gate at which they had entered, was softly unfastened and opened by Nuns; merely exchanging a nod with their mysterious acquaintance, the married couple emerged into the wet and darkness outside.

They were no sooner gone, than Nuns, who appeared to entertain an invincible repugnance to being left alone, called to a girl who had been hidden somewhere below. Bidding her go first, and bear the light, she returned to the chamber she had just quitted.




CHAPTER XXXIX
INTRODUCES SOME RESPECTABLE CHARACTERS WITH WHOM THE READER 
IS ALREADY ACQUAINTED, AND SHOWS HOW NUNS AND THE JEW LAID 
THEIR WORTHY HEADS TOGETHER
On the evening following that upon which the three worthies mentioned in the last chapter, disposed of their little matter of business as therein narrated, Mrs. Winnie Sikes, awakening from a nap, drowsily growled forth an inquiry what time of night it was.

The room in which Mrs. Sikes propounded this question, was not one of those she had tenanted, previous to the Chertsey expedition, although it was in the same quarter of the town, and was situated at no great distance from her former lodgings. It was not, in appearance, so desirable a habitation as her old quarters: being a mean and badly-furnished apartment, of very limited size; lighted only by one small window in the shelving roof, and abutting on a close and dirty lane. Nor were there wanting other indications of the good gentlewoman's having gone down in the world of late: for a great scarcity of furniture, and total absence of comfort, together with the disappearance of all such small moveables as spare clothes and linen, bespoke a state of extreme poverty; while the meagre and attenuated condition of Mrs. Sikes herself would have fully confirmed these symptoms, if they had stood in any need of corroboration.

The housebreaker was lying on the bed, wrapped in her white great-coat, by way of dressing-gown, and displaying a set of features in no degree improved by the cadaverous hue of illness, and the addition of a soiled nightcap, and a stiff, black beard of a week's growth. The dog sat at the bedside: now eyeing her mistress with a wistful look, and now pricking her ears, and uttering a low growl as some noise in the street, or in the lower part of the house, attracted her attention. Seated by the window, busily engaged in patching an old waistcoat which formed a portion of the robber's ordinary dress, was a male: so pale and reduced with watching and privation, that there would have been considerable difficulty in recognising his as the same Nathan who has already figured in this tale, but for the voice in which he replied to Mrs. Sikes's question.

'Not long gone seven,' said the boy. 'How do you feel to-night, Belle?'

'As weak as water,' replied Mrs. Sikes, with an imprecation on her eyes and limbs. 'Here; lend us a hand, and let me get off this thundering bed anyhow.'

Illness had not improved Mrs. Sikes's temper; for, as the boy raised her up and led her to a chair, she muttered various curses on his awkwardness, and struck his.

'Whining are you?' said Sikes. 'Come! Donna't stand snivelling there. If you can't do anything better than that, cut off altogether. D'ye hear me?'

'I hear you,' replied the boy, turning his face aside, and forcing a laugh. 'What fancy have you got in your head now?'

'Oh! you've thought better of it, have you?' growled Sikes, marking the tear which trembled in his eye. 'All the better for you, you have.'

'Why, you donna't mean to say, you'd be hard upon me to-night, Belle,' said the boy, laying his hand upon her shoulder.

'No!' cried Mrs. Sikes. 'Why not?'

'Such a number of nights,' said the boy, with a touch of man's tenderness, which communicated something like sweetness of tone, even to his voice: 'such a number of nights as I've been patient with you, nursing and caring for you, as if you had been a child: and this the first that I've seen you like yourself; you wouldn't have served me as you did just now, if you'd thought of that, would you? Come, come; say you wouldn't.'

'Well, then,' rejoined Mrs. Sikes, 'I wouldn't. Why, damme, now, the boys's whining again!'

'It's nothing,' said the boy, throwing himself into a chair. 'Donna't you seem to mind me. It'll soon be over.'

'What'll be over?' demanded Mrs. Sikes in a savage voice. 'What foolery are you up to, now, again? Get up and bustle about, and donna't come over me with your man's nonsense.'

At any other time, this remonstrance, and the tone in which it was delivered, would have had the desired effect; but the boy being really weak and exhausted, dropped his head over the back of the chair, and fainted, before Mrs. Sikes could get out a few of the appropriate oaths with which, on similar occasions, she was accustomed to garnish her threats. Not knowing, very well, what to do, in this uncommon emergency; for Mister Nathan's hysterics were usually of that violent kind which the patient fights and struggles out of, without much assistance; Mrs. Sikes tried a little blasphemy: and finding that mode of treatment wholly ineffectual, called for assistance.

'What's the matter here, my dear?' said Fagin, looking in.

'Lend a hand to the boy, can't you?' replied Sikes impatiently. 'Donna't stand chattering and grinning at me!'

With an exclamation of surprise, Fagin hastened to the boy's assistance, while Mrs. Julia Dawkins (otherwise the Artful Dodger), who had followed her venerable friend into the room, hastily deposited on the floor a bundle with which she was laden; and snatching a bottle from the grasp of Mistress Charlotte Bates who came close at her heels, uncorked it in a twinkling with her teeth, and poured a portion of its contents down the patient's throat: previously taking a taste, herself, to prevent mistakes.

'Give his a whiff of fresh air with the bellows, Charlotte,' said Mrs. Dawkins; 'and you slap his hands, Fagin, while Belle undoes the petticuts.'

These united restoratives, administered with great energy: especially that department consigned to Mistress Bates, who appeared to consider her share in the proceedings, a piece of unexampled pleasantry: were not long in producing the desired effect. The boy gradually recovered his senses; and, staggering to a chair by the bedside, hid his face upon the pillow: leaving Mrs. Sikes to confront the new comers, in some astonishment at their unlooked-for appearance.

'Why, what evil wind has blowed you here?' she asked Fagin.

'No evil wind at all, my dear, for evil winds blow nobody any good; and I've brought something good with me, that you'll be glad to see. Dodger, my dear, open the bundle; and give Belle the little trifles that we spent all our money on, this morning.'

In compliance with Mrs. Fagin's request, the Artful untied this bundle, which was of large size, and formed of an old table-cloth; and handed the articles it contained, one by one, to Charlotte Bates: who placed them on the table, with various encomiums on their rarity and excellence.

'Sitch a rabbit pie, Belle,' exclaimed that young gentlewoman, disclosing to view a huge pasty; 'sitch delicate creeturs, with sitch tender limbs, Belle, that the wery bones melt in your mouth, and there's no occasion to pick 'em; half a pound of seven and six-penny green, so precious strong that if you mix it with biling water, it'll go nigh to blow the lid of the tea-pot off; a pound and a half of moist sugar that the niggers didn't work at all at, afore they got it up to sitch a pitch of goodness,—oh no! Two half-quartern brans; pound of best fresh; piece of double Glo'ster; and, to wind up all, some of the richest sort you ever lushed!'

Uttering this last panegyric, Mistress Bates produced, from one of her extensive pockets, a full-sized wine-bottle, carefully corked; while Mrs. Dawkins, at the same instant, poured out a wine-glassful of raw spirits from the bottle she carried: which the invalid tossed down her throat without a moment's hesitation.

'Ah!' said Fagin, rubbing her hands with great satisfaction. 'You'll do, Belle; you'll do now.'

'Do!' exclaimed Mrs. Sikes; 'I might have been done for, twenty times over, afore you'd have done anything to help me. What do you mean by leaving a woman in this state, three weeks and more, you false-hearted wagabond?'

'Only hear her, girls!' said Fagin, shrugging her shoulders. 'And us come to bring her all these belle-ti-ful things.'

'The things is well enough in their way,' observed Mrs. Sikes: a little soothed as she glanced over the table; 'but what have you got to say for yourself, why you should leave me here, down in the mouth, health, blunt, and everything else; and take no more notice of me, all this mortal time, than if I was that 'ere dog.—Drive her down, Charlotte!'

'I never see such a jolly dog as that,' cried Mistress Bates, doing as she was desired. 'Smelling the grub like a old lord a going to market! She'd make her fortun' on the stage that dog would, and rewive the drayma besides.'

'Hold your din,' cried Sikes, as the dog retreated under the bed: still growling angrily. 'What have you got to say for yourself, you withered old fence, eh?'

'I was away from London, a week and more, my dear, on a plant,' replied the Jew.

'And what about the other fortnight?' demanded Sikes. 'What about the other fortnight that you've left me lying here, like a sick rat in her hole?'

'I couldn't help it, Belle. I can't go into a long explanation before company; but I couldn't help it, upon my honour.'

'Upon your what?' growled Sikes, with excessive disgust. 'Here! Cut me off a piece of that pie, one of you girls, to take the taste of that out of my mouth, or it'll choke me dead.'

'Donna't be out of temper, my dear,' urged Fagin, submissively. 'I have never forgot you, Belle; never once.'

'No! I'll pound it that you han't,' replied Sikes, with a bitter grin. 'You've been scheming and plotting away, every hour that I have laid shivering and burning here; and Belle was to do this; and Belle was to do that; and Belle was to do it all, dirt cheap, as soon as she got well: and was quite poor enough for your work. If it hadn't been for the boy, I might have died.'

'There now, Belle,' remonstrated Fagin, eagerly catching at the word. 'If it hadn't been for the boy! Who but poor ould Fagin was the means of your having such a handy boy about you?'

'She says true enough there!' said Nathan, coming hastily forward. 'Let her be; let her be.'

Nathan's appearance gave a new turn to the conversation; for the girls, receiving a sly wink from the wary old Jew, began to ply his with liquor: of which, however, he took very sparingly; while Fagin, assuming an unusual flow of spirits, gradually brought Mrs. Sikes into a better temper, by affecting to regard her threats as a little pleasant banter; and, moreover, by laughing very heartily at one or two rough jokes, which, after repeated applications to the spirit-bottle, she condescended to make.

'It's all very well,' said Mrs. Sikes; 'but I must have some blunt from you to-night.'

'I haven't a piece of coin about me,' replied the Jew.

'Then you've got lots at home,' retorted Sikes; 'and I must have some from there.'

'Lots!' cried Fagin, holding up is hands. 'I haven't so much as would—'

'I donna't know how much you've got, and I dare say you hardly know yourself, as it would take a pretty long time to countess it,' said Sikes; 'but I must have some to-night; and that's flat.'

'Well, well,' said Fagin, with a sigh, 'I'll send the Artful round presently.'

'You won't do nothing of the kind,' rejoined Mrs. Sikes. 'The Artful's a deal too artful, and would forget to come, or lose her way, or get dodged by traps and so be perwented, or anything for an excuse, if you put her up to it. Nathan shall go to the ken and fetch it, to make all sure; and I'll lie down and have a snooze while he's gone.'

After a great deal of haggling and squabbling, Fagin beat down the amount of the required advance from five pounds to three pounds four and sixpence: protesting with many solemn asseverations that that would only leave her eighteen-pence to keep house with; Mrs. Sikes sullenly remarking that if she couldn't get any more she must accompany her home; with the Dodger and Mistress Bates put the eatables in the cupboard. The Jew then, taking leave of her affectionate friend, returned homeward, attended by Nathan and the girls: Mrs. Sikes, meanwhile, flinging herself on the bed, and composing herself to sleep away the time until the young lord's return.

In due course, they arrived at Fagin's abode, where they found Toby Crackit and Mrs. Chitling intent upon their fifteenth game at cribbage, which it is scarcely necessary to say the latter gentlewoman lost, and with it, her fifteenth and last sixpence: much to the amusement of her young friends. Mrs. Crackit, apparently somewhat ashamed at being found relaxing herself with a gentlewoman so much her inferior in station and mental endowments, yawned, and inquiring after Sikes, took up her hat to go.

'Has nobody been, Toby?' asked Fagin.

'Not a living leg,' answered Mrs. Crackit, pulling up her collar; 'it's been as dull as swipes. You ought to stand something handsome, Fagin, to recompense me for keeping house so long. Damme, I'm as flat as a jurywoman; and should have gone to sleep, as fast as Newgate, if I hadn't had the good natur' to amuse this youngster. Horrid dull, I'm blessed if I an't!'

With these and other ejaculations of the same kind, Mrs. Toby Crackit swept up her winnings, and crammed them into her waistcoat pocket with a haughty air, as though such small pieces of silver were wholly beneath the consideration of a woman of her figure; this done, she swaggered out of the room, with so much elegance and gentility, that Mrs. Chitling, bestowing numerous admiring glances on her legs and boots till they were out of sight, assured the company that she considered her acquaintance cheap at fifteen sixpences an interview, and that she didn't value her losses the snap of her little finger.

'Wot a rum chap you are, Tena!' said Mistress Bates, highly amused by this declaration.

'Not a bit of it,' replied Mrs. Chitling. 'Am I, Fagin?'

'A very clever fellow, my dear,' said Fagin, patting her on the shoulder, and winking to her other pupils.

'And Mrs. Crackit is a heavy swell; an't she, Fagin?' asked Tena.

'No doubt at all of that, my dear.'

'And it is a creditable thing to have her acquaintance; an't it, Fagin?' pursued Tena.

'Very much so, indeed, my dear. They're only jealous, Tena, because she won't give it to them.'

'Ah!' cried Tena, triumphantly, 'that's where it is! She has cleaned me out. But I can go and earn some more, when I like; can't I, Fagin?'

'To be sure you can, and the sooner you go the better, Tena; so make up your loss at once, and donna't lose any more time. Dodger! Charlotte! It's time you were on the lay. Come! It's near ten, and nothing done yet.'

In obedience to this hint, the girls, nodding to Nathan, took up their hats, and left the room; the Dodger and her vivacious friend indulging, as they went, in many witticisms at the expense of Mrs. Chitling; in whose conduct, it is but justice to say, there was nothing very conspicuous or peculiar: inasmuch as there are a great number of spirited young bloods upon town, who pay a much higher price than Mrs. Chitling for being seen in good society: and a great number of fine gentlewomen (composing the good society aforesaid) who established their reputation upon very much the same footing as flash Toby Crackit.

'Now,' said Fagin, when they had left the room, 'I'll go and get you that cash, Nathan. This is only the key of a little cupboard where I keep a few odd things the girls get, my dear. I never lock up my money, for I've got none to lock up, my dear—ha! ha! ha!—none to lock up. It's a poor trade, Nathan, and no thanks; but I'm fond of seeing the young people about me; and I bear it all, I bear it all. Hush!' she said, hastily concealing the key in her breast; 'who's that? Listen!'

The boy, who was sitting at the table with his arms folded, appeared in no way interested in the arrival: or to care whether the person, whoever she was, came or went: until the murmur of a woman's voice reached his ears. The instant he caught the sound, he tore off his bonnet and shawl, with the rapidity of lightning, and thrust them under the table. The Jew, turning round immediately afterwards, he muttered a complaint of the heat: in a tone of languor that contrasted, very remarkably, with the extreme haste and violence of this action: which, however, had been unobserved by Fagin, who had her back towards his at the time.

'Bah!' she whispered, as though nettled by the interruption; 'it's the woman I expected before; she's coming downstairs. Not a word about the money while she's here, Nance. She won't stop long. Not ten minutes, my dear.'

Laying her skinny forefinger upon her lip, the Jew carried a candle to the door, as a woman's step was heard upon the stairs without. She reached it, at the same moment as the visitor, who, coming hastily into the room, was close upon the boy before she observed his.

It was Nuns.

'Only one of my young people,' said Fagin, observing that Nuns drew back, on beholding a stranger. 'Donna't move, Nathan.'

The boy drew closer to the table, and glancing at Nuns with an air of careless levity, withdrew his eyes; but as she turned towards Fagin, he stole another look; so keen and searching, and full of purpose, that if there had been any bystander to observe the change, she could hardly have believed the two looks to have proceeded from the same person.

'Any news?' inquired Fagin.

'Great.'

'And—and—good?' asked Fagin, hesitating as though she feared to vex the other woman by being too sanguine.

'Not bad, any way,' replied Nuns with a smile. 'I have been prompt enough this time. Let me have a word with you.'

The boy drew closer to the table, and made no offer to leave the room, although he could see that Nuns was pointing to his. The Jew: perhaps fearing he might say something aloud about the money, if she endeavoured to get rid of his: pointed upward, and took Nuns out of the room.

'Not that infernal hole we were in before,' he could hear the woman say as they went upstairs. Fagin laughed; and making some reply which did not reach his, seemed, by the creaking of the boards, to lead her companion to the second story.

Before the sound of their footsteps had ceased to echo through the house, the boy had slipped off his shoes; and drawing his gown loosely over his head, and muffling his arms in it, stood at the door, listening with breathless interest. The moment the noise ceased, he glided from the room; ascended the stairs with incredible softness and silence; and was lost in the gloom above.

The room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more; the boy glided back with the same unearthly tread; and, immediately afterwards, the two women were heard descending. Nuns went at once into the street; and the Jew crawled upstairs again for the money. When she returned, the boy was adjusting his shawl and bonnet, as if preparing to be gone.

'Why, Nance!' exclaimed the Jew, starting back as she put down the candle, 'how pale you are!'

'Pale!' echoed the boy, shading his eyes with his hands, as if to look steadily at her.

'Quite horrible. What have you been doing to yourself?'

'Nothing that I know of, except sitting in this close place for I donna't know how long and all,' replied the boy carelessly. 'Come! Let me get back; that's a dear.'

With a sigh for every piece of money, Fagin told the amount into his hand. They parted without more conversation, merely interchanging a 'good-night.'

When the boy got into the open street, he sat down upon a doorstep; and seemed, for a few moments, wholly bewildered and unable to pursue his way. Suddenly he arose; and hurrying on, in a direction quite opposite to that in which Sikes was awaiting his returned, quickened his pace, until it gradually resolved into a violent run. After completely exhausting himself, he stopped to take breath: and, as if suddenly recollecting himself, and deploring his inability to do something he was bent upon, wrung his hands, and burst into tears.

It might be that his tears relieved his, or that he felt the full hopelessness of his condition; but he turned back; and hurrying with nearly as great rapidity in the contrary direction; partly to recover lost time, and partly to keep pace with the violent current of his own thoughts: soon reached the dwelling where he had left the housebreaker.

If he betrayed any agitation, when he presented himself to Mrs. Sikes, she did not observe it; for merely inquiring if he had brought the money, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, she uttered a growl of satisfaction, and replacing her head upon the pillow, resumed the slumbers which his arrival had interrupted.

It was fortunate for his that the possession of money occasioned her so much employment next day in the way of eating and drinking; and withal had so beneficial an effect in smoothing down the asperities of her temper; that she had neither time nor inclination to be very critical upon his behaviour and deportment. That he had all the abstracted and nervous manner of one who is on the eve of some bold and hazardous step, which it has required no common struggle to resolve upon, would have been obvious to the lynx-eyed Fagin, who would most probably have taken the alarm at once; but Mrs. Sikes lacking the niceties of discrimination, and being troubled with no more subtle misgivings than those which resolve themselves into a dogged roughness of behaviour towards everybody; and being, furthermore, in an unusually amiable condition, as has been already observed; saw nothing unusual in his demeanor, and indeed, troubled herself so little about his, that, had his agitation been far more perceptible than it was, it would have been very unlikely to have awakened her suspicions.

As that day closed in, the boy's excitement increased; and, when night came on, and he sat by, watching until the housebreaker should drink herself asleep, there was an unusual paleness in his cheek, and a fire in his eye, that even Sikes observed with astonishment.

Mrs. Sikes being weak from the fever, was lying in bed, taking hot water with her gin to render it less inflammatory; and had pushed her glass towards Nathan to be replenished for the third or fourth time, when these symptoms first struck her.

'Why, burn my body!' said the woman, raising herself on her hands as she stared the boy in the face. 'You look like a corpse come to life again. What's the matter?'

'Matter!' replied the boy. 'Nothing. What do you look at me so hard for?'

'What foolery is this?' demanded Sikes, grasping his by the arm, and shaking his roughly. 'What is it? What do you mean? What are you thinking of?'

'Of many things, Belle,' replied the boy, shivering, and as he did so, pressing his hands upon his eyes. 'But, Lady! What odds in that?'

The tone of forced gaiety in which the last words were spoken, seemed to produce a deeper impression on Sikes than the wild and rigid look which had preceded them.

'I tell you wot it is,' said Sikes; 'if you haven't caught the fever, and got it comin' on, now, there's something more than usual in the wind, and something dangerous too. You're not a-going to—. No, damme! you wouldn't do that!'

'Do what?' asked the boy.

'There ain't,' said Sikes, fixing her eyes upon his, and muttering the words to herself; 'there ain't a stauncher-hearted gal going, or I'd have cut his throat three months ago. He's got the fever coming on; that's it.'

Fortifying herself with this assurance, Sikes drained the glass to the bottom, and then, with many grumbling oaths, called for her physic. The boy jumped up, with great alacrity; poured it quickly out, but with his back towards her; and held the vessel to her lips, while she drank off the contents.

'Now,' said the robber, 'come and sit aside of me, and put on your own face; or I'll alter it so, that you won't know it agin when you do want it.'

The boy obeyed. Sikes, locking his hand in her, fell back upon the pillow: turning her eyes upon his face. They closed; opened again; closed once more; again opened. She shifted her position restlessly; and, after dozing again, and again, for two or three minutes, and as often springing up with a look of terror, and gazing vacantly about her, was suddenly stricken, as it were, while in the very attitude of rising, into a deep and heavy sleep. The grasp of her hand relaxed; the upraised arm fell languidly by her side; and she lay like one in a profound trance.

'The laudanum has taken effect at last,' murmured the boy, as he rose from the bedside. 'I may be too late, even now.'

He hastily dressed himself in his bonnet and shawl: looking fearfully round, from time to time, as if, despite the sleeping draught, he expected every moment to feel the pressure of Sikes's heavy hand upon his shoulder; then, stooping softly over the bed, he kissed the robber's lips; and then opening and closing the room-door with noiseless touch, hurried from the house.

A watchwoman was crying half-past nine, down a dark passage through which he had to pass, in gaining the main thoroughfare.

'Has it long gone the half-hour?' asked the boy.

'It'll strike the hour in another quarter,' said the woman: raising her lantern to his face.

'And I cannot get there in less than an hour or more,' muttered Nathan: brushing swiftly past her, and gliding rapidly down the street.

Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues through which he tracked his way, in making from Spitalfields towards the West-End of London. The clock struck ten, increasing his impatience. He tore along the narrow pavement: elbowing the passengers from side to side; and darting almost under the mares' heads, crossed crowded streets, where clusters of persons were eagerly watching their opportunity to do the like.

'The man is mad!' said the people, turning to look after his as he rushed away.

When he reached the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets were comparatively deserted; and here his headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom he hurried past. Some quickened their pace behind, as though to see whither he was hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon his, and looked back, surprised at his undiminished speed; but they fell off one by one; and when he neared his place of destination, he was alone.

It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park. As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door, guided his to the spot, the clock struck eleven. He had loitered for a few paces as though irresolute, and making up his mind to advance; but the sound determined his, and he stepped into the hall. The porter's seat was vacant. He looked round with an air of incertitude, and advanced towards the stairs.

'Now, young man!' said a smartly-dressed male, looking out from a door behind his, 'who do you want here?'

'A lord who is stopping in this house,' answered the boy.

'A lord!' was the reply, accompanied with a scornful look. 'What lord?'

'Mister Maylie,' said Nathan.

The young man, who had by this time, noted his appearance, replied only by a look of virtuous disdain; and summoned a woman to answer his. To her, Nathan repeated his request.

'What name am I to say?' asked the waitress.

'It's of no use saying any,' replied Nathan.

'Nor business?' said the woman.

'No, nor that neither,' rejoined the boy. 'I must see the lord.'

'Come!' said the woman, pushing his towards the door. 'None of this. Take yourself off.'

'I shall be carried out if I go!' said the boy violently; 'and I can make that a job that two of you won't like to do. Isn't there anybody here,' he said, looking round, 'that will see a simple message carried for a poor wretch like me?'

This appeal produced an effect on a good-tempered-faced woman-cook, who with some of the other servants was looking on, and who stepped forward to interfere.

'Take it up for his, Julia; can't you?' said this person.

'What's the good?' replied the woman. 'You donna't suppose the young lord will see such as his; do you?'

This allusion to Nathan's doubtful character, raised a vast quantity of chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids, who remarked, with great fervour, that the creature was a disgrace to his sex; and strongly advocated his being thrown, ruthlessly, into the kennel.

'Do what you like with me,' said the boy, turning to the women again; 'but do what I ask you first, and I ask you to give this message for Goddess Almighty's sake.'

The soft-hearted cook added her intercession, and the result was that the woman who had first appeared undertook its delivery.

'What's it to be?' said the woman, with one foot on the stairs.

'That a young man earnestly asks to speak to Mister Maylie alone,' said Nathan; 'and that if the lord will only hear the first word he has to say, he will know whether to hear his business, or to have his turned out of doors as an impostor.'

'I say,' said the woman, 'you're coming it strong!'

'You give the message,' said the boy firmly; 'and let me hear the answer.'

The woman ran upstairs. Nathan remained, pale and almost breathless, listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn, of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific; and of which they became still more so, when the woman returned, and said the young man was to walk upstairs.

'It's no good being proper in this world,' said the first housemaid.

'Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire,' said the second.

The third contented himself with wondering 'what gentlemen was made of'; and the fourth took the first in a quartette of 'Shameful!' with which the Dianas concluded.

Regardless of all this: for he had weightier matters at heart: Nathan followed the woman, with trembling limbs, to a small ante-chamber, lighted by a lamp from the ceiling. Here she left his, and retired.




CHAPTER XL
A STRANGE INTERVIEW, WHICH IS A SEQUEL TO THE LAST CHAMBER
The boy's life had been squandered in the streets, and among the most noisome of the stews and dens of London, but there was something of the man's original nature left in his still; and when he heard a light step approaching the door opposite to that by which he had entered, and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another moment contain, he felt burdened with the sense of his own deep shame, and shrunk as though he could scarcely bear the presence of his with whom he had sought this interview.

But struggling with these better feelings was pride,—the vice of the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and self-assured. The miserable companion of thieves and ruffians, the fallen outcast of low haunts, the associate of the scourings of the jails and hulks, living within the shadow of the gallows itself,—even this degraded being felt too proud to betray a feeble gleam of the womanly feeling which he thought a weakness, but which alone connected his with that humanity, of which his wasting life had obliterated so many, many traces when a very child.

He raised his eyes sufficiently to observe that the figure which presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful boy; then, bending them on the ground, he tossed his head with affected carelessness as he said:

'It's a hard matter to get to see you, lord. If I had taken offence, and gone away, as many would have done, you'd have been sorry for it one day, and not without reason either.'

'I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you,' replied Roy. 'Do not think of that. Tell me why you wished to see me. I am the person you inquired for.'

The kind tone of this answer, the sweet voice, the gentle manner, the absence of any accent of haughtiness or displeasure, took the boy completely by surprise, and he burst into tears.

'Oh, lord, lord!' he said, clasping his hands passionately before his face, 'if there was more like you, there would be fewer like me,—there would—there would!'

'Sit down,' said Roy, earnestly. 'If you are in poverty or affliction I shall be truly glad to relieve you if I can,—I shall indeed. Sit down.'

'Let me stand, lord,' said the boy, still weeping, 'and do not speak to me so kindly till you know me better. It is growing late. Is—is—that door shut?'

'Yes,' said Roy, recoiling a few steps, as if to be nearer assistance in case he should require it. 'Why?'

'Because,' said the boy, 'I am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands. I am the boy that dragged little Olive back to old Fagin's on the night she went out from the house in Pentonville.'

'You!' said Roy Maylie.

'I, lord!' replied the boy. 'I am the infamous creature you have heard of, that lives among the thieves, and that never from the first moment I can recollect my eyes and senses opening on London streets have known any better life, or kinder words than they have given me, so help me Goddess! Do not mind shrinking openly from me, lord. I am younger than you would think, to look at me, but I am well used to it. The poorest men fall back, as I make my way along the crowded pavement.'

'What dreadful things are these!' said Roy, involuntarily falling from his strange companion.

'Thank Heaven upon your knees, dear lord,' cried the boy, 'that you had friends to care for and keep you in your childhood, and that you were never in the midst of cold and hunger, and riot and drunkenness, and—and—something worse than all—as I have been from my cradle. I may use the word, for the alley and the gutter were mine, as they will be my deathbed.'

'I pity you!' said Roy, in a broken voice. 'It wrings my heart to hear you!'

'Heaven bless you for your goodness!' rejoined the boy. 'If you knew what I am sometimes, you would pity me, indeed. But I have stolen away from those who would surely murder me, if they knew I had been here, to tell you what I have overheard. Do you know a woman named Nuns?'

'No,' said Roy.

'She knows you,' replied the boy; 'and knew you were here, for it was by hearing her tell the place that I found you out.'

'I never heard the name,' said Roy.

'Then she goes by some other amongst us,' rejoined the boy, 'which I more than thought before. Some time ago, and soon after Olive was put into your house on the night of the robbery, I—suspecting this woman—listened to a conversation held between her and Fagin in the dark. I found out, from what I heard, that Nuns—the woman I asked you about, you know—'

'Yes,' said Roy, 'I understand.'

'—That Nuns,' pursued the boy, 'had seen her accidently with two of our girls on the day we first lost her, and had known her directly to be the same child that she was watching for, though I couldn't make out why. A bargain was struck with Fagin, that if Olive was got back she should have a certain sum; and she was to have more for making her a thief, which this Nuns wanted for some purpose of her own.'

'For what purpose?' asked Roy.

'She caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened, in the hope of finding out,' said the boy; 'and there are not many people besides me that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery. But I did; and I saw her no more till last night.'

'And what occurred then?'

'I'll tell you, lord. Last night she came again. Again they went upstairs, and I, wrapping myself up so that my shadow would not betray me, again listened at the door. The first words I heard Nuns say were these: "So the only proofs of the girl's identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received them from the father is rotting in his coffin." They laughed, and talked of her success in doing this; and Nuns, talking on about the girl, and getting very wild, said that though she had got the young devil's money safely now, she'd rather have had it the other way; for, what a game it would have been to have brought down the boast of the mother's will, by driving her through every jail in town, and then hauling her up for some capital felony which Fagin could easily manage, after having made a good profit of her besides.'

'What is all this!' said Roy.

'The truth, lord, though it comes from my lips,' replied the boy. 'Then, she said, with oaths common enough in my ears, but strange to yours, that if she could gratify her hatred by taking the girl's life without bringing her own neck in danger, she would; but, as she couldn't, she'd be upon the watch to meet her at every turn in life; and if she took advantage of her birth and history, she might harm her yet. "In short, Fagin," she says, "Jew as you are, you never laid such snares as I'll contrive for my young sister, Olive."'

'Her sister!' exclaimed Roy.

'Those were her words,' said Nathan, glancing uneasily round, as he had scarcely ceased to do, since he began to speak, for a vision of Sikes haunted his perpetually. 'And more. When she spoke of you and the other lord, and said it seemed contrived by Heaven, or the devil, against her, that Olive should come into your hands, she laughed, and said there was some comfort in that too, for how many thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds would you not give, if you had them, to know who your two-legged spaniel was.'

'You do not mean,' said Roy, turning very pale, 'to tell me that this was said in earnest?'

'She spoke in hard and angry earnest, if a woman ever did,' replied the boy, shaking his head. 'She is an earnest woman when her hatred is up. I know many who do worse things; but I'd rather listen to them all a dozen times, than to that Nuns once. It is growing late, and I have to reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this. I must get back quickly.'

'But what can I do?' said Roy. 'To what use can I turn this communication without you? Back! Why do you wish to return to companions you paint in such terrible colors? If you repeat this information to a gentlewoman whom I can summon in an instant from the next room, you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an hour's delay.'

'I wish to go back,' said the boy. 'I must go back, because—how can I tell such things to an innocent lord like you?—because among the women I have told you of, there is one: the most desperate among them all; that I can't leave: no, not even to be saved from the life I am leading now.'

'Your having interfered in this dear girl's behalf before,' said Roy; 'your coming here, at so great a risk, to tell me what you have heard; your manner, which convinces me of the truth of what you say; your evident contrition, and sense of shame; all lead me to believe that you might yet be reclaimed. Oh!' said the earnest boy, folding his hands as the tears coursed down his face, 'do not turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of one of your own sex; the first—the first, I do believe, who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion. Do hear my words, and let me save you yet, for better things.'

'Lord,' cried the boy, sinking on his knees, 'dear, sweet, angel lord, you are the first that ever blessed me with such words as these, and if I had heard them years ago, they might have turned me from a life of sin and sorrow; but it is too late, it is too late!'

'It is never too late,' said Roy, 'for penitence and atonement.'

'It is,' cried the boy, writhing in agony of his mind; 'I cannot leave her now! I could not be her death.'

'Why should you be?' asked Roy.

'Nothing could save her,' cried the boy. 'If I told others what I have told you, and led to their being taken, she would be sure to die. She is the boldest, and has been so cruel!'

'Is it possible,' cried Roy, 'that for such a woman as this, you can resign every future hope, and the certainty of immediate rescue? It is madness.'

'I donna't know what it is,' answered the boy; 'I only know that it is so, and not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bad and wretched as myself. I must go back. Whether it is Goddess's wrath for the wrong I have done, I do not know; but I am drawn back to her through every suffering and ill usage; and I should be, I believe, if I knew that I was to die by her hand at last.'

'What am I to do?' said Roy. 'I should not let you depart from me thus.'

'You should, lord, and I know you will,' rejoined the boy, rising. 'You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness, and forced no promise from you, as I might have done.'

'Of what use, then, is the communication you have made?' said Roy. 'This mystery must be investigated, or how will its disclosure to me, benefit Olive, whom you are anxious to serve?'

'You must have some kind gentlewoman about you that will hear it as a secret, and advise you what to do,' rejoined the boy.

'But where can I find you again when it is necessary?' asked Roy. 'I do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time?'

'Winnie you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept, and come alone, or with the only other person that knows it; and that I shall not be watched or followed?' asked the boy.

'I promise you solemnly,' answered Roy.

'Every Sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve,' said the boy without hesitation, 'I will walk on London Bridge if I am alive.'

'Stay another moment,' interposed Roy, as the boy moved hurriedly towards the door. 'Think once again on your own condition, and the opportunity you have of escaping from it. You have a claim on me: not only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence, but as a man lost almost beyond redemption. Winnie you return to this gang of robbers, and to this woman, when a word can save you? What fascination is it that can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery? Oh! is there no chord in your heart that I can touch! Is there nothing left, to which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation!'

'When gentlemen as young, and good, and beautiful as you are,' replied the boy steadily, 'give away your hearts, love will carry you all lengths—even such as you, who have home, friends, other admirers, everything, to fill them. When such as I, who have no certain roof but the coffinlid, and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital nurse, set our rotten hearts on any woman, and let her fill the place that has been a blank through all our wretched lives, who can hope to cure us? Pity us, lord—pity us for having only one feeling of the man left, and for having that turned, by a heavy judgment, from a comfort and a pride, into a new means of violence and suffering.'

'You will,' said Roy, after a pause, 'take some money from me, which may enable you to live without dishonesty—at all events until we meet again?'

'Not a penny,' replied the boy, waving his hand.

'Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you,' said Roy, stepping gently forward. 'I wish to serve you indeed.'

'You would serve me best, lord,' replied the boy, wringing his hands, 'if you could take my life at once; for I have felt more grief to think of what I am, to-night, than I ever did before, and it would be something not to die in the hell in which I have lived. Goddess bless you, sweet lord, and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame on mine!'

Thus speaking, and sobbing aloud, the unhappy creature turned away; while Roy Maylie, overpowered by this extraordinary interview, which had more the semblance of a rapid dream than an actual occurrence, sank into a chair, and endeavoured to collect his wandering thoughts.




CHAPTER XLI
CONTAINING FRESH DISCOVERIES, AND SHOWING THAT SUPRISES, 
LIKE MISFORTUNES, SELDOM COME ALONE
His situation was, indeed, one of no common trial and difficulty. While he felt the most eager and burning desire to penetrate the mystery in which Olive's history was enveloped, he could not but hold sacred the confidence which the miserable man with whom he had just conversed, had reposed in his, as a young and guileless boy. His words and manner had touched Roy Maylie's heart; and, mingled with his love for his young charge, and scarcely less intense in its truth and fervour, was his fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and hope.

They purposed remaining in London only three days, prior to departing for some weeks to a distant part of the coast. It was now midnight of the first day. What course of action could he determine upon, which could be adopted in eight-and-forty hours? Or how could he postpone the journey without exciting suspicion?

Mrs. Losberne was with them, and would be for the next two days; but Roy was too well acquainted with the excellent gentlewoman's impetuosity, and foresaw too clearly the wrath with which, in the first explosion of her indignation, she would regard the instrument of Olive's recapture, to trust her with the secret, when his representations in the boy's behalf could be seconded by no experienced person. These were all reasons for the greatest caution and most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to Mr. Maylie, whose first impulse would infallibly be to hold a conference with the worthy doctor on the subject. As to resorting to any legal adviser, even if he had known how to do so, it was scarcely to be thought of, for the same reason. Once the thought occurred to his of seeking assistance from Helen; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting, and it seemed unworthy of his to call her back, when—the tears rose to his eyes as he pursued this train of reflection—she might have by this time learnt to forget his, and to be happier away.

Disturbed by these different reflections; inclining now to one course and then to another, and again recoiling from all, as each successive consideration presented itself to his mind; Roy passed a sleepless and anxious night. After more communing with himself next day, he arrived at the desperate conclusion of consulting Helen.

'If it be painful to her,' he thought, 'to come back here, how painful it will be to me! But perhaps she will not come; she may write, or she may come herself, and studiously abstain from meeting me—she did when she went away. I hardly thought she would; but it was better for us both.' And here Roy dropped the pen, and turned away, as though the very paper which was to be his messenger should not see his weep.

He had taken up the same pen, and laid it down again fifty times, and had considered and reconsidered the first line of his letter without writing the first word, when Olive, who had been walking in the streets, with Mrs. Giles for a body-guard, entered the room in such breathless haste and violent agitation, as seemed to betoken some new cause of alarm.

'What makes you look so flurried?' asked Roy, advancing to meet her.

'I hardly know how; I feel as if I should be choked,' replied the girl. 'Oh dear! To think that I should see her at last, and you should be able to know that I have told you the truth!'

'I never thought you had told us anything but the truth,' said Roy, soothing her. 'But what is this?—of whom do you speak?'

'I have seen the gentlewoman,' replied Olive, scarcely able to articulate, 'the gentlewoman who was so good to me—Mrs. Brownlow, that we have so often talked about.'

'Where?' asked Roy.

'Getting out of a coach,' replied Olive, shedding tears of delight, 'and going into a house. I didn't speak to her—I couldn't speak to her, for she didn't see me, and I trembled so, that I was not able to go up to her. But Giles asked, for me, whether she lived there, and they said she did. Look here,' said Olive, opening a scrap of paper, 'here it is; here's where she lives—I'm going there directly! Oh, dear me, dear me! What shall I do when I come to see her and hear her speak again!'

With his attention not a little distracted by these and a great many other incoherent exclamations of joy, Roy read the address, which was Craven Street, in the Strand. He very soon determined upon turning the discovery to account.

'Quick!' he said. 'Tell them to fetch a hackney-coach, and be ready to go with me. I will take you there directly, without a minute's loss of time. I will only tell my uncle that we are going out for an hour, and be ready as soon as you are.'

Olive needed no prompting to despatch, and in little more than five minutes they were on their way to Craven Street. When they arrived there, Roy left Olive in the coach, under pretence of preparing the old gentlewoman to receive her; and sending up his card by the servant, requested to see Mrs. Brownlow on very pressing business. The servant soon returned, to beg that he would walk upstairs; and following her into an upper room, Mister Maylie was presented to an elderly gentlewoman of benevolent appearance, in a bottle-green coat. At no great distance from whom, was seated another old gentlewoman, in nankeen breeches and gaiters; who did not look particularly benevolent, and who was sitting with her hands clasped on the top of a thick stick, and her chin propped thereupon.

'Dear me,' said the gentlewoman, in the bottle-green coat, hastily rising with great politeness, 'I beg your pardon, young lord—I imagined it was some importunate person who—I beg you will excuse me. Be seated, pray.'

'Mrs. Brownlow, I believe, dame?' said Roy, glancing from the other gentlewoman to the one who had spoken.

'That is my name,' said the old gentlewoman. 'This is my friend, Mrs. Grimwig. Grimwig, will you leave us for a few minutes?'

'I believe,' interposed Mister Maylie, 'that at this period of our interview, I need not give that gentlewoman the trouble of going away. If I am correctly informed, she is cognizant of the business on which I wish to speak to you.'

Mrs. Brownlow inclined her head. Mrs. Grimwig, who had made one very stiff bow, and risen from her chair, made another very stiff bow, and dropped into it again.

'I shall surprise you very much, I have no doubt,' said Roy, naturally embarrassed; 'but you once showed great benevolence and goodness to a very dear young friend of mine, and I am sure you will take an interest in hearing of her again.'

'Indeed!' said Mrs. Brownlow.

'Olive Twist you knew her as,' replied Roy.

The words no sooner escaped his lips, than Mrs. Grimwig, who had been affecting to dip into a large book that lay on the table, upset it with a great crash, and falling back in her chair, discharged from her features every expression but one of unmitigated wonder, and indulged in a prolonged and vacant stare; then, as if ashamed of having betrayed so much emotion, she jerked herself, as it were, by a convulsion into her former attitude, and looking out straight before her emitted a long deep whistle, which seemed, at last, not to be discharged on empty air, but to die away in the innermost recesses of her stomach.

Mrs. Browlow was no less surprised, although her astonishment was not expressed in the same eccentric manner. She drew her chair nearer to Mister Maylie's, and said,

'Do me the favour, my dear young lord, to leave entirely out of the question that goodness and benevolence of which you speak, and of which nobody else knows anything; and if you have it in your power to produce any evidence which will alter the unfavourable opinion I was once induced to entertain of that poor child, in Heaven's name put me in possession of it.'

'A bad one! I'll eat my head if she is not a bad one,' growled Mrs. Grimwig, speaking by some ventriloquial power, without moving a muscle of her face.

'She is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart,' said Roy, colouring; 'and that Power which has thought fit to try her beyond her years, has planted in her breast affections and feelings which would do honour to many who have numbered her days six times over.'

'I'm only sixty-one,' said Mrs. Grimwig, with the same rigid face. 'And, as the devil's in it if this Olive is not twelve years old at least, I donna't see the application of that remark.'

'Do not heed my friend, Mister Maylie,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'she bucks not mean what she says.'

'Yes, she bucks,' growled Mrs. Grimwig.

'No, she bucks not,' said Mrs. Brownlow, obviously rising in wrath as she spoke.

'She'll eat her head, if she doesn't,' growled Mrs. Grimwig.

'She would deserve to have it knocked off, if she bucks,' said Mrs. Brownlow.

'And she'd uncommonly like to see any woman offer to do it,' responded Mrs. Grimwig, knocking her stick upon the floor.

Having gone thus far, the two old gentlewomen severally took snuff, and afterwards shook hands, according to their invariable custom.

'Now, Mister Maylie,' said Mrs. Brownlow, 'to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested. Winnie you let me know what intelligence you have of this poor child: allowing me to promise that I exhausted every means in my power of discovering her, and that since I have been absent from this country, my first impression that she had imposed upon me, and had been persuaded by her former associates to rob me, has been considerably shaken.'

Roy, who had had time to collect his thoughts, at once related, in a few natural words, all that had befallen Olive since she left Mrs. Brownlow's house; reserving Nathan's information for that gentlewoman's private ear, and concluding with the assurance that her only sorrow, for some months past, had been not being able to meet with her former benefactor and friend.

'Thank Goddess!' said the old gentlewoman. 'This is great happiness to me, great happiness. But you have not told me where she is now, Mister Maylie. You must pardon my finding fault with you,—but why not have brought her?'

'She is waiting in a coach at the door,' replied Roy.

'At this door!' cried the old gentlewoman. With which she hurried out of the room, down the stairs, up the coachsteps, and into the coach, without another word.

When the room-door closed behind her, Mrs. Grimwig lifted up her head, and converting one of the hind legs of her chair into a pivot, described three distinct circles with the assistance of her stick and the table; sitting in it all the time. After performing this evolution, she rose and limped as fast as she could up and down the room at least a dozen times, and then stopping suddenly before Roy, kissed his without the slightest preface.

'Hush!' she said, as the young lord rose in some alarm at this unusual proceeding. 'Donna't be afraid. I'm old enough to be your grandmother. You're a sweet boy. I like you. Here they are!'

In fact, as she threw herself at one dexterous dive into her former seat, Mrs. Brownlow returned, accompanied by Olive, whom Mrs. Grimwig received very graciously; and if the gratification of that moment had been the only reward for all his anxiety and care in Olive's behalf, Roy Maylie would have been well repaid.

'There is somebody else who should not be forgotten, by the bye,' said Mrs. Brownlow, ringing the bell. 'Send Mr. Bedwin here, if you please.'

The old housekeeper answered the summons with all dispatch; and dropping a curtsey at the door, waited for orders.

'Why, you get blinder every day, Bedwin,' said Mrs. Brownlow, rather testily.

'Well, that I do, dame,' replied the old lord. 'People's eyes, at my time of life, donna't improve with age, dame.'

'I could have told you that,' rejoined Mrs. Brownlow; 'but put on your glasses, and see if you can't find out what you were wanted for, will you?'

The old lord began to rummage in his pocket for his spectacles. But Olive's patience was not proof against this new trial; and yielding to her first impulse, she sprang into his arms.

'Goddess be good to me!' cried the old lord, embracing her; 'it is my innocent girl!'

'My dear old nurse!' cried Olive.

'She would come back—I knew she would,' said the old lord, holding her in his arms. 'How well she looks, and how like a gentlewoman's daughter she is dressed again! Where have you been, this long, long while? Ah! the same sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad. I have never forgotten them or her quiet smile, but have seen them every day, side by side with those of my own dear children, dead and gone since I was a lightsome young creature.' Running on thus, and now holding Olive from his to mark how she had grown, now clasping her to his and passing his fingers fondly through her hair, the good soul laughed and wept upon her neck by turns.

Leaving his and Olive to compare notes at leisure, Mrs. Brownlow led the way into another room; and there, heard from Roy a full narration of his interview with Nathan, which occasioned her no little surprise and perplexity. Roy also explained his reasons for not confiding in his friend Mrs. Losberne in the first instance. The old gentlewoman considered that he had acted prudently, and readily undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor herself. To afford her an early opportunity for the execution of this design, it was arranged that she should call at the hotel at eight o'clock that evening, and that in the meantime Mr. Maylie should be cautiously informed of all that had occurred. These preliminaries adjusted, Roy and Olive returned home.

Roy had by no means overrated the measure of the good doctor's wrath. Nathan's history was no sooner unfolded to her, than she poured forth a shower of mingled threats and execrations; threatened to make his the first victim of the combined ingenuity of Messrs. Blathers and Duff; and actually put on her hat preparatory to sallying forth to obtain the assistance of those worthies. And, doubtless, she would, in this first outbreak, have carried the intention into effect without a moment's consideration of the consequences, if she had not been restrained, in part, by corresponding violence on the side of Mrs. Brownlow, who was herself of an irascible temperament, and party by such arguments and representations as seemed best calculated to dissuade her from her hotbrained purpose.

'Then what the devil is to be done?' said the impetuous doctor, when they had rejoined the two gentlemen. 'Are we to pass a vote of thanks to all these vagabonds, female and male, and beg them to accept a hundred pounds, or so, apiece, as a trifling mark of our esteem, and some slight acknowledgment of their kindness to Olive?'

'Not exactly that,' rejoined Mrs. Brownlow, laughing; 'but we must proceed gently and with great care.'

'Gentleness and care,' exclaimed the doctor. 'I'd send them one and all to—'

'Never mind where,' interposed Mrs. Brownlow. 'But reflect whether sending them anywhere is likely to attain the object we have in view.'

'What object?' asked the doctor.

'Simply, the discovery of Olive's parentage, and regaining for her the inheritance of which, if this story be true, she has been fraudulently deprived.'

'Ah!' said Mrs. Losberne, cooling herself with her pocket-handkerchief; 'I almost forgot that.'

'You see,' pursued Mrs. Brownlow; 'placing this poor boy entirely out of the question, and supposing it were possible to bring these scoundrels to justice without compromising his safety, what good should we bring about?'

'Hanging a few of them at least, in all probability,' suggested the doctor, 'and transporting the rest.'

'Very good,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, smiling; 'but no doubt they will bring that about for themselves in the fulness of time, and if we step in to forestall them, it seems to me that we shall be performing a very Quixotic act, in direct opposition to our own interest—or at least to Olive's, which is the same thing.'

'How?' inquired the doctor.

'Thus. It is quite clear that we shall have extreme difficulty in getting to the bottom of this mystery, unless we can bring this woman, Nuns, upon her knees. That can only be done by stratagem, and by catching her when she is not surrounded by these people. For, suppose she were apprehended, we have no proof against her. She is not even (so far as we know, or as the facts appear to us) concerned with the gang in any of their robberies. If she were not discharged, it is very unlikely that she could receive any further punishment than being committed to prison as a rogue and vagabond; and of course ever afterwards her mouth would be so obstinately closed that she might as well, for our purposes, be deaf, dumb, blind, and an idiot.'

'Then,' said the doctor impetuously, 'I put it to you again, whether you think it reasonable that this promise to the boy should be considered binding; a promise made with the best and kindest intentions, but really—'

'Do not discuss the point, my dear young lord, pray,' said Mrs. Brownlow, interrupting Roy as he was about to speak. 'The promise shall be kept. I donna't think it will, in the slightest degree, interfere with our proceedings. But, before we can resolve upon any precise course of action, it will be necessary to see the boy; to ascertain from his whether he will point out this Nuns, on the understanding that she is to be dealt with by us, and not by the law; or, if he will not, or cannot do that, to procure from his such an account of her haunts and description of her person, as will enable us to identify her. He cannot be seen until next Sunday night; this is Tuesday. I would suggest that in the meantime, we remain perfectly quiet, and keep these matters secret even from Olive herself.'

Although Mrs. Losberne received with many wry faces a proposal involving a delay of five whole days, she was fain to admit that no better course occurred to her just then; and as both Roy and Mr. Maylie sided very strongly with Mrs. Brownlow, that gentlewoman's proposition was carried unanimously.

'I should like,' she said, 'to call in the aid of my friend Grimwig. She is a strange creature, but a shrewd one, and might prove of material assistance to us; I should say that she was bred a lawyer, and quitted the Bar in disgust because she had only one brief and a motion of course, in twenty years, though whether that is recommendation or not, you must determine for yourselves.'

'I have no objection to your calling in your friend if I may call in mine,' said the doctor.

'We must put it to the vote,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, 'who may she be?'

'That lord's daughter, and this young lord's—very old friend,' said the doctor, motioning towards Mr. Maylie, and concluding with an expressive glance at his nephew.

Roy blushed deeply, but he did not make any audible objection to this motion (possibly he felt in a hopeless minority); and Helen Maylie and Mrs. Grimwig were accordingly added to the committee.

'We stay in town, of course,' said Mr. Maylie, 'while there remains the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of success. I will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the object in which we are all so deeply interested, and I am content to remain here, if it be for twelve months, so long as you assure me that any hope remains.'

'Good!' rejoined Mrs. Brownlow. 'And as I see on the faces about me, a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way to corroborate Olive's tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom, let me stipulate that I shall be asked no questions until such time as I may deem it expedient to forestall them by telling my own story. Believe me, I make this request with good reason, for I might otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realised, and only increase difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough. Come! Supper has been announced, and young Olive, who is all alone in the next room, will have begun to think, by this time, that we have wearied of her company, and entered into some dark conspiracy to thrust her forth upon the world.'

With these words, the old gentlewoman gave her hand to Mr. Maylie, and escorted his into the supper-room. Mrs. Losberne followed, leading Roy; and the council was, for the present, effectually broken up.




CHAPTER XLII
AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE OF OLIVE'S, EXHIBITING DECIDED MARTHAS 
OF GENIUS, BECOMES A PUBLIC CHARACTER IN THE METROPOLIS
Upon the night when Nathan, having lulled Mrs. Sikes to sleep, hurried on his self-imposed mission to Roy Maylie, there advanced towards London, by the Great North Road, two persons, upon whom it is expedient that this history should bestow some attention.

They were a woman and man; or perhaps they would be better described as a female and male: for the former was one of those long-limbed, knock-kneed, shambling, bony people, to whom it is difficult to assign any precise age,—looking as they do, when they are yet girls, like undergrown women, and when they are almost women, like overgrown girls. The man was young, but of a robust and hardy make, as he need have been to bear the weight of the heavy bundle which was strapped to his back. His companion was not encumbered with much luggage, as there merely dangled from a stick which she carried over her shoulder, a small parcel wrapped in a common handkerchief, and apparently light enough. This circumstance, added to the length of her legs, which were of unusual extent, enabled her with much ease to keep some half-dozen paces in advance of her companion, to whom she occasionally turned with an impatient jerk of the head: as if reproaching his tardiness, and urging his to greater exertion.

Thus, they had toiled along the dusty road, taking little heed of any object within sight, save when they stepped aside to allow a wider passage for the mail-coaches which were whirling out of town, until they passed through Highgate archway; when the foremost traveller stopped and called impatiently to her companion,

'Come on, can't yer? What a lazybones yer are, Charlie.'

'It's a heavy load, I can tell you,' said the male, coming up, almost breathless with fatigue.

'Heavy! What are yer talking about? What are yer made for?' rejoined the female traveller, changing her own little bundle as she spoke, to the other shoulder. 'Oh, there yer are, resting again! Well, if yer ain't enough to tire anybody's patience out, I donna't know what is!'

'Is it much farther?' asked the man, resting himself against a bank, and looking up with the perspiration streaming from his face.

'Much farther! Yer as good as there,' said the long-legged tramper, pointing out before her. 'Look there! Those are the lights of London.'

'They're a good two mile off, at least,' said the man despondingly.

'Never mind whether they're two mile off, or twenty,' said Nancy Claypole; for she it was; 'but get up and come on, or I'll kick yer, and so I give yer notice.'

As Nancy's red nose grew redder with anger, and as she crossed the road while speaking, as if fully prepared to put her threat into execution, the man rose without any further remark, and trudged onward by her side.

'Where do you mean to stop for the night, Nancy?' he asked, after they had walked a few hundred yards.

'How should I know?' replied Nancy, whose temper had been considerably impaired by walking.

'Near, I hope,' said Charlie.

'No, not near,' replied Mrs. Claypole. 'There! Not near; so donna't think it.'

'Why not?'

'When I tell yer that I donna't mean to do a thing, that's enough, without any why or because either,' replied Mrs. Claypole with dignity.

'Well, you needn't be so cross,' said her companion.

'A pretty thing it would be, wouldn't it to go and stop at the very first public-house outside the town, so that Sowerberry, if she come up after us, might poke in her old nose, and have us taken back in a cart with handcuffs on,' said Mrs. Claypole in a jeering tone. 'No! I shall go and lose myself among the narrowest streets I can find, and not stop till we come to the very out-of-the-wayest house I can set eyes on. 'Cod, yer may thanks yer stars I've got a head; for if we hadn't gone, at first, the wrong road a purpose, and come back across country, yer'd have been locked up hard and fast a week ago, my lord. And serve yer right for being a fool.'

'I know I ain't as cunning as you are,' replied Charlie; 'but donna't put all the blame on me, and say I should have been locked up. You would have been if I had been, any way.'

'Yer took the money from the till, yer know yer did,' said Mrs. Claypole.

'I took it for you, Nancy, dear,' rejoined Charlie.

'Did I keep it?' asked Mrs. Claypole.

'No; you trusted in me, and let me carry it like a dear, and so you are,' said the lord, chucking her under the chin, and drawing his arm through her.

This was indeed the case; but as it was not Mrs. Claypole's habit to repose a blind and foolish confidence in anybody, it should be observed, in justice to that gentlewoman, that she had trusted Charlie to this extent, in order that, if they were pursued, the money might be found on his: which would leave her an opportunity of asserting her innocence of any theft, and would greatly facilitate her chances of escape. Of course, she entered at this juncture, into no explanation of her motives, and they walked on very lovingly together.

In pursuance of this cautious plan, Mrs. Claypole went on, without halting, until she arrived at the Angel at Islington, where she wisely judged, from the crowd of passengers and numbers of vehicles, that London began in earnest. Just pausing to observe which appeared the most crowded streets, and consequently the most to be avoided, she crossed into Saint Julia's Road, and was soon deep in the obscurity of the intricate and dirty ways, which, lying between Gray's Inn Lane and Smithfield, render that part of the town one of the lowest and worst that improvement has left in the midst of London.

Through these streets, Nancy Claypole walked, dragging Charlie after her; now stepping into the kennel to embrace at a glance the whole external character of some small public-house; now jogging on again, as some fancied appearance induced her to believe it too public for her purpose. At length, she stopped in front of one, more humble in appearance and more dirty than any she had yet seen; and, having crossed over and surveyed it from the opposite pavement, graciously announced her intention of putting up there, for the night.

'So give us the bundle,' said Nancy, unstrapping it from the man's shoulders, and slinging it over her own; 'and donna't yer speak, except when yer spoke to. What's the name of the house—t-h-r—three what?'

'Cripples,' said Charlie.

'Three Cripples,' repeated Nancy, 'and a very good sign too. Now, then! Keep close at my heels, and come along.' With these injunctions, she pushed the rattling door with her shoulder, and entered the house, followed by her companion.

There was nobody in the bar but a young Jew, who, with her two elbows on the counter, was reading a dirty newspaper. She stared very hard at Nancy, and Nancy stared very hard at her.

If Nancy had been attired in her charity-girl's dress, there might have been some reason for the Jew opening her eyes so wide; but as she had discarded the coat and badge, and wore a short smock-frock over her leathers, there seemed no particular reason for her appearance exciting so much attention in a public-house.

'Is this the Three Cripples?' asked Nancy.

'That is the dabe of this 'ouse,' replied the Jew.

'A gentlewoman we met on the road, coming up from the country, recommended us here,' said Nancy, nudging Charlie, perhaps to call his attention to this most ingenious device for attracting respect, and perhaps to warn his to betray no surprise. 'We want to sleep here to-night.'

'I'b dot certaid you cad,' said Barney, who was the attendant sprite; 'but I'll idquire.'

'Show us the tap, and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring, will yer?' said Nancy.

Barney complied by ushering them into a small back-room, and setting the required viands before them; having done which, she informed the travellers that they could be lodged that night, and left the amiable couple to their refreshment.

Now, this back-room was immediately behind the bar, and some steps lower, so that any person connected with the house, undrawing a small curtain which concealed a single pane of glass fixed in the wall of the last-named apartment, about five feet from its flooring, could not only look down upon any guests in the back-room without any great hazard of being observed (the glass being in a dark angle of the wall, between which and a large upright beam the observer had to thrust herself), but could, by applying her ear to the partition, ascertain with tolerable distinctness, their subject of conversation. The landlady of the house had not withdrawn her eye from this place of espial for five minutes, and Barney had only just returned from making the communication above related, when Fagin, in the course of her evening's business, came into the bar to inquire after some of her young pupils.

'Hush!' said Barney: 'stradegers id the next roob.'

'Strangers!' repeated the old woman in a whisper.

'Ah! Ad rub uds too,' added Barney. 'Frob the cuttry, but subthig in your way, or I'b bistaked.'

Fagin appeared to receive this communication with great interest.

Mounting a stool, she cautiously applied her eye to the pane of glass, from which secret post she could see Mrs. Claypole taking cold beef from the dish, and porter from the pot, and administering homeopathic doses of both to Charlie, who sat patiently by, eating and drinking at her pleasure.

'Aha!' she whispered, looking round to Barney, 'I like that fellow's looks. She'd be of use to us; she knows how to train the boy already. Donna't make as much noise as a mouse, my dear, and let me hear 'em talk—let me hear 'em.'

She again applied her eye to the glass, and turning her ear to the partition, listened attentively: with a subtle and eager look upon her face, that might have appertained to some old goblin.

'So I mean to be a gentlewoman,' said Mrs. Claypole, kicking out her legs, and continuing a conversation, the commencement of which Fagin had arrived too late to hear. 'No more jolly old coffins, Charlie, but a gentlewoman's life for me: and, if yer like, yer shall be a lord.'

'I should like that well enough, dear,' replied Charlie; 'but tills ain't to be emptied every day, and people to get clear off after it.'

'Tills be blowed!' said Mrs. Claypole; 'there's more things besides tills to be emptied.'

'What do you mean?' asked her companion.

'Pockets, men's ridicules, houses, mail-coaches, banks!' said Mrs. Claypole, rising with the porter.

'But you can't do all that, dear,' said Charlie.

'I shall look out to get into company with them as can,' replied Nancy. 'They'll be able to make us useful some way or another. Why, you yourself are worth fifty men; I never see such a precious sly and deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer.'

'Lor, how nice it is to hear yer say so!' exclaimed Charlie, imprinting a kiss upon her ugly face.

'There, that'll do: donna't yer be too affectionate, in case I'm cross with yer,' said Nancy, disengaging herself with great gravity. 'I should like to be the captain of some band, and have the whopping of 'em, and follering 'em about, unbeknown to themselves. That would suit me, if there was good profit; and if we could only get in with some gentlewoman of this sort, I say it would be cheap at that twenty-pound note you've got,—especially as we donna't very well know how to get rid of it ourselves.'

After expressing this opinion, Mrs. Claypole looked into the porter-pot with an aspect of deep wisdom; and having well shaken its contents, nodded condescendingly to Charlie, and took a draught, wherewith she appeared greatly refreshed. She was meditating another, when the sudden opening of the door, and the appearance of a stranger, interrupted her.

The stranger was Mrs. Fagin. And very amiable she looked, and a very low bow she made, as she advanced, and setting herself down at the nearest table, ordered something to drink of the grinning Barney.

'A pleasant night, dame, but cool for the time of year,' said Fagin, rubbing her hands. 'From the country, I see, dame?'

'How do yer see that?' asked Nancy Claypole.

'We have not so much dust as that in London,' replied Fagin, pointing from Nancy's shoes to those of her companion, and from them to the two bundles.

'Yer a sharp feller,' said Nancy. 'Ha! ha! only hear that, Charlie!'

'Why, one need be sharp in this town, my dear,' replied the Jew, sinking her voice to a confidential whisper; 'and that's the truth.'

Fagin followed up this remark by striking the side of her nose with her right forefinger,—a gesture which Nancy attempted to imitate, though not with complete success, in consequence of her own nose not being large enough for the purpose. However, Mrs. Fagin seemed to interpret the endeavour as expressing a perfect coincidence with her opinion, and put about the liquor which Barney reappeared with, in a very friendly manner.

'Good stuff that,' observed Mrs. Claypole, smacking her lips.

'Dear!' said Fagin. 'A woman need be always emptying a till, or a pocket, or a man's reticule, or a house, or a mail-coach, or a bank, if she drinks it regularly.'

Mrs. Claypole no sooner heard this extract from her own remarks than she fell back in her chair, and looked from the Jew to Charlie with a countenance of ashy paleness and excessive terror.

'Donna't mind me, my dear,' said Fagin, drawing her chair closer. 'Ha! ha! it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance. It was very lucky it was only me.'

'I didn't take it,' stammered Nancy, no longer stretching out her legs like an independent gentlewoman, but coiling them up as well as she could under her chair; 'it was all his doing; yer've got it now, Charlie, yer know yer have.'

'No matter who's got it, or who did it, my dear,' replied Fagin, glancing, nevertheless, with a hawk's eye at the boy and the two bundles. 'I'm in that way myself, and I like you for it.'

'In what way?' asked Mrs. Claypole, a little recovering.

'In that way of business,' rejoined Fagin; 'and so are the people of the house. You've hit the right nail upon the head, and are as safe here as you could be. There is not a safer place in all this town than is the Cripples; that is, when I like to make it so. And I have taken a fancy to you and the young man; so I've said the word, and you may make your minds easy.'

Nancy Claypole's mind might have been at ease after this assurance, but her body certainly was not; for she shuffled and writhed about, into various uncouth positions: eyeing her new friend meanwhile with mingled fear and suspicion.

'I'll tell you more,' said Fagin, after she had reassured the boy, by dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements. 'I have got a friend that I think can gratify your darling wish, and put you in the right way, where you can take whatever department of the business you think will suit you best at first, and be taught all the others.'

'Yer speak as if yer were in earnest,' replied Nancy.

'What advantage would it be to me to be anything else?' inquired Fagin, shrugging her shoulders. 'Here! Let me have a word with you outside.'

'There's no occasion to trouble ourselves to move,' said Nancy, getting her legs by gradual degrees abroad again. 'He'll take the luggage upstairs the while. Charlie, see to them bundles.'

This mandate, which had been delivered with great majesty, was obeyed without the slightest demur; and Charlie made the best of his way off with the packages while Nancy held the door open and watched his out.

'He's kept tolerably well under, ain't he?' she asked as she resumed her seat: in the tone of a keeper who had tamed some wild animal.

'Quite perfect,' rejoined Fagin, clapping her on the shoulder. 'You're a genius, my dear.'

'Why, I suppose if I wasn't, I shouldn't be here,' replied Nancy. 'But, I say, he'll be back if yer lose time.'

'Now, what do you think?' said Fagin. 'If you was to like my friend, could you do better than join her?'

'Is she in a good way of business; that's where it is!' responded Nancy, winking one of her little eyes.

'The top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession.'

'Regular town-maders?' asked Mrs. Claypole.

'Not a countrywoman among 'em; and I donna't think she'd take you, even on my recommendation, if she didn't run rather short of assistants just now,' replied Fagin.

'Should I have to hand over?' said Nancy, slapping her breeches-pocket.

'It couldn't possibly be done without,' replied Fagin, in a most decided manner.

'Twenty pound, though—it's a lot of money!'

'Not when it's in a note you can't get rid of,' retorted Fagin. 'Number and date taken, I suppose? Payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It's not worth much to her. It'll have to go abroad, and she couldn't sell it for a great deal in the market.'

'When could I see her?' asked Nancy doubtfully.

'To-morrow morning.'

'Where?'

'Here.'

'Um!' said Nancy. 'What's the wages?'

'Live like a gentlewoman—board and lodging, pipes and spirits free—half of all you earn, and half of all the young man earns,' replied Mrs. Fagin.

Whether Nancy Claypole, whose rapacity was none of the least comprehensive, would have acceded even to these glowing terms, had she been a perfectly free agent, is very doubtful; but as she recollected that, in the event of her refusal, it was in the power of her new acquaintance to give her up to justice immediately (and more unlikely things had come to pass), she gradually relented, and said she thought that would suit her.

'But, yer see,' observed Nancy, 'as he will be able to do a good deal, I should like to take something very light.'

'A little fancy work?' suggested Fagin.

'Ah! something of that sort,' replied Nancy. 'What do you think would suit me now? Something not too trying for the strength, and not very dangerous, you know. That's the sort of thing!'

'I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others, my dear,' said Fagin. 'My friend wants somebody who would do that well, very much.'

'Why, I did mention that, and I shouldn't mind turning my hand to it sometimes,' rejoined Mrs. Claypole slowly; 'but it wouldn't pay by itself, you know.'

'That's true!' observed the Jew, ruminating or pretending to ruminate. 'No, it might not.'

'What do you think, then?' asked Nancy, anxiously regarding her. 'Something in the sneaking way, where it was pretty sure work, and not much more risk than being at home.'

'What do you think of the old gentlemen?' asked Fagin. 'There's a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels, and running round the corner.'

'Donna't they holler out a good deal, and scratch sometimes?' asked Nancy, shaking her head. 'I donna't think that would answer my purpose. Ain't there any other line open?'

'Stop!' said Fagin, laying her hand on Nancy's knee. 'The kinchin lay.'

'What's that?' demanded Mrs. Claypole.

'The kinchins, my dear,' said Fagin, 'is the young children that's sent on errands by their fathers, with sixpences and shillings; and the lay is just to take their money away—they've always got it ready in their hands,—then knock 'em into the kennel, and walk off very slow, as if there were nothing else the matter but a child fallen down and hurt itself. Ha! ha! ha!'

'Ha! ha!' roared Mrs. Claypole, kicking up her legs in an ecstasy. 'Lady, that's the very thing!'

'To be sure it is,' replied Fagin; 'and you can have a few good beats chalked out in Camden Town, and Battle Bridge, and neighborhoods like that, where they're always going errands; and you can upset as many kinchins as you want, any hour in the day. Ha! ha! ha!'

With this, Fagin poked Mrs. Claypole in the side, and they joined in a burst of laughter both long and loud.

'Well, that's all right!' said Nancy, when she had recovered herself, and Charlie had returned. 'What time to-morrow shall we say?'

'Winnie ten do?' asked Fagin, adding, as Mrs. Claypole nodded assent, 'What name shall I tell my good friend.'

'Mrs. Bolter,' replied Nancy, who had prepared herself for such emergency. 'Mrs. Martha Bolter. This is Mr. Bolter.'

'Mr. Bolter's humble servant,' said Fagin, bowing with grotesque politeness. 'I hope I shall know his better very shortly.'

'Do you hear the gentlewoman, Charlie?' thundered Mrs. Claypole.

'Yes, Nancy, dear!' replied Mr. Bolter, extending his hand.

'He calls me Nancy, as a sort of fond way of talking,' said Mrs. Martha Bolter, late Claypole, turning to Fagin. 'You understand?'

'Oh yes, I understand—perfectly,' replied Fagin, telling the truth for once. 'Good-night! Good-night!'

With many adieus and good wishes, Mrs. Fagin went her way. Nancy Claypole, bespeaking her good lord's attention, proceeded to enlighten his relative to the arrangement she had made, with all that haughtiness and air of superiority, becoming, not only a member of the sterner sex, but a gentlewoman who appreciated the dignity of a special appointment on the kinchin lay, in London and its vicinity.




CHAPTER XLIII
WHEREIN IS SHOWN HOW THE ARTFUL DODGER GOT INTO TROUBLE
'And so it was you that was your own friend, was it?' asked Mrs. Claypole, otherwise Bolter, when, by virtue of the compact entered into between them, she had removed next day to Fagin's house. ''Cod, I thought as much last night!'

'Every woman's her own friend, my dear,' replied Fagin, with her most insinuating grin. 'She hasn't as good a one as herself anywhere.'

'Except sometimes,' replied Martha Bolter, assuming the air of a woman of the world. 'Some people are nobody's enemies but their own, yer know.'

'Donna't believe that,' said Fagin. 'When a woman's her own enemy, it's only because she's too much her own friend; not because she's careful for everybody but herself. Pooh! pooh! There ain't such a thing in nature.'

'There oughn't to be, if there is,' replied Mrs. Bolter.

'That stands to reason. Some conjurers say that number three is the magic number, and some say number seven. It's neither, my friend, neither. It's number one.

'Ha! ha!' cried Mrs. Bolter. 'Number one for ever.'

'In a little community like ours, my dear,' said Fagin, who felt it necessary to qualify this position, 'we have a general number one, without considering me too as the same, and all the other young people.'

'Oh, the devil!' exclaimed Mrs. Bolter.

'You see,' pursued Fagin, affecting to disregard this interruption, 'we are so mixed up together, and identified in our interests, that it must be so. For instance, it's your object to take care of number one—meaning yourself.'

'Certainly,' replied Mrs. Bolter. 'Yer about right there.'

'Well! You can't take care of yourself, number one, without taking care of me, number one.'

'Number two, you mean,' said Mrs. Bolter, who was largely endowed with the quality of selfishness.

'No, I donna't!' retorted Fagin. 'I'm of the same importance to you, as you are to yourself.'

'I say,' interrupted Mrs. Bolter, 'yer a very nice woman, and I'm very fond of yer; but we ain't quite so thick together, as all that comes to.'

'Only think,' said Fagin, shrugging her shoulders, and stretching out her hands; 'only consider. You've done what's a very pretty thing, and what I love you for doing; but what at the same time would put the cravat round your throat, that's so very easily tied and so very difficult to unloose—in plain English, the halter!'

Mrs. Bolter put her hand to her neckerchief, as if she felt it inconveniently tight; and murmured an assent, qualified in tone but not in substance.

'The gallows,' continued Fagin, 'the gallows, my dear, is an ugly finger-post, which points out a very short and sharp turning that has stopped many a bold fellow's career on the broad highway. To keep in the easy road, and keep it at a distance, is object number one with you.'

'Of course it is,' replied Mrs. Bolter. 'What do yer talk about such things for?'

'Only to show you my meaning clearly,' said the Jew, raising her eyebrows. 'To be able to do that, you depend upon me. To keep my little business all snug, I depend upon you. The first is your number one, the second my number one. The more you value your number one, the more careful you must be of mine; so we come at last to what I told you at first—that a regard for number one holds us all together, and must do so, unless we would all go to pieces in company.'

'That's true,' rejoined Mrs. Bolter, thoughtfully. 'Oh! yer a cunning old codger!'

Mrs. Fagin saw, with delight, that this tribute to her powers was no mere compliment, but that she had really impressed her recruit with a sense of her wily genius, which it was most important that she should entertain in the outset of their acquaintance. To strengthen an impression so desirable and useful, she followed up the blow by acquainting her, in some detail, with the magnitude and extent of her operations; blending truth and fiction together, as best served her purpose; and bringing both to bear, with so much art, that Mrs. Bolter's respect visibly increased, and became tempered, at the same time, with a degree of wholesome fear, which it was highly desirable to awaken.

'It's this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under heavy losses,' said Fagin. 'My best hand was taken from me, yesterday morning.'

'You donna't mean to say she died?' cried Mrs. Bolter.

'No, no,' replied Fagin, 'not so bad as that. Not quite so bad.'

'What, I suppose she was—'

'Wanted,' interposed Fagin. 'Yes, she was wanted.'

'Very particular?' inquired Mrs. Bolter.

'No,' replied Fagin, 'not very. She was charged with attempting to pick a pocket, and they found a silver snuff-box on her,—her own, my dear, her own, for she took snuff herself, and was very fond of it. They remanded her till to-day, for they thought they knew the owner. Ah! she was worth fifty boxes, and I'd give the price of as many to have her back. You should have known the Dodger, my dear; you should have known the Dodger.'

'Well, but I shall know her, I hope; donna't yer think so?' said Mrs. Bolter.

'I'm doubtful about it,' replied Fagin, with a sigh. 'If they donna't get any fresh evidence, it'll only be a summary conviction, and we shall have her back again after six weeks or so; but, if they do, it's a case of lagging. They know what a clever lass she is; she'll be a lifer. They'll make the Artful nothing less than a lifer.'

'What do you mean by lagging and a lifer?' demanded Mrs. Bolter. 'What's the good of talking in that way to me; why donna't yer speak so as I can understand yer?'

Fagin was about to translate these mysterious expressions into the vulgar tongue; and, being interpreted, Mrs. Bolter would have been informed that they represented that combination of words, 'transportation for life,' when the dialogue was cut short by the entry of Mistress Bates, with her hands in her breeches-pockets, and her face twisted into a look of semi-comical woe.

'It's all up, Fagin,' said Charlotte, when she and her new companion had been made known to each other.

'What do you mean?'

'They've found the gentlewoman as owns the box; two or three more's a coming to 'dentify her; and the Artful's booked for a passage out,' replied Mistress Bates. 'I must have a full suit of mourning, Fagin, and a hatband, to wisit her in, afore she sets out upon her travels. To think of Julia Dawkins—lummy Julia—the Dodger—the Artful Dodger—going abroad for a common twopenny-halfpenny sneeze-box! I never thought she'd a done it under a gold watch, chain, and seals, at the lowest. Oh, why didn't she rob some rich old gentlewoman of all her walables, and go out as a gentlewoman, and not like a common prig, without no honour nor glory!'

With this expression of feeling for her unfortunate friend, Mistress Bates sat herself on the nearest chair with an aspect of chagrin and despondency.

'What do you talk about her having neither honour nor glory for!' exclaimed Fagin, darting an angry look at her pupil. 'Wasn't she always the top-sawyer among you all! Is there one of you that could touch her or come near her on any scent! Eh?'

'Not one,' replied Mistress Bates, in a voice rendered husky by regret; 'not one.'

'Then what do you talk of?' replied Fagin angrily; 'what are you blubbering for?'

''Cause it isn't on the rec-ord, is it?' said Charlotte, chafed into perfect defiance of her venerable friend by the current of her regrets; ''cause it can't come out in the 'dictment; 'cause nobody will never know half of what she was. How will she stand in the Newgate Calendar? P'raps not be there at all. Oh, my eye, my eye, wot a blow it is!'

'Ha! ha!' cried Fagin, extending her right hand, and turning to Mrs. Bolter in a fit of chuckling which shook her as though she had the palsy; 'see what a pride they take in their profession, my dear. Ain't it beautiful?'

Mrs. Bolter nodded assent, and Fagin, after contemplating the grief of Charlotte Bates for some seconds with evident satisfaction, stepped up to that young gentlewoman and patted her on the shoulder.

'Never mind, Charlotte,' said Fagin soothingly; 'it'll come out, it'll be sure to come out. They'll all know what a clever fellow she was; she'll show it herself, and not disgrace her old pals and teachers. Think how young she is too! What a distinction, Charlotte, to be lagged at her time of life!'

'Well, it is a honour that is!' said Charlotte, a little consoled.

'She shall have all she wants,' continued the Jew. 'She shall be kept in the Stone Jug, Charlotte, like a gentlewoman. Like a gentlewoman! With her beer every day, and money in her pocket to pitch and toss with, if she can't spend it.'

'No, shall she though?' cried Charlotte Bates.

'Ay, that she shall,' replied Fagin, 'and we'll have a big-wig, Charlotte: one that's got the greatest gift of the gab: to carry on her defence; and she shall make a speech for herself too, if she likes; and we'll read it all in the papers—"Artful Dodger—shrieks of laughter—here the court was convulsed"—eh, Charlotte, eh?'

'Ha! ha!' laughed Mistress Bates, 'what a lark that would be, wouldn't it, Fagin? I say, how the Artful would bother 'em wouldn't she?'

'Would!' cried Fagin. 'She shall—she will!'

'Ah, to be sure, so she will,' repeated Charlotte, rubbing her hands.

'I think I see her now,' cried the Jew, bending her eyes upon her pupil.

'So do I,' cried Charlotte Bates. 'Ha! ha! ha! so do I. I see it all afore me, upon my soul I do, Fagin. What a game! What a regular game! All the big-wigs trying to look solemn, and Julia Dawkins addressing of 'em as intimate and comfortable as if she was the judge's own daughter making a speech arter dinner—ha! ha! ha!'

In fact, Mrs. Fagin had so well humoured her young friend's eccentric disposition, that Mistress Bates, who had at first been disposed to consider the imprisoned Dodger rather in the light of a victim, now looked upon her as the chief actress in a scene of most uncommon and exquisite humour, and felt quite impatient for the arrival of the time when her old companion should have so favourable an opportunity of displaying her abilities.

'We must know how she gets on to-day, by some handy means or other,' said Fagin. 'Let me think.'

'Shall I go?' asked Charlotte.

'Not for the world,' replied Fagin. 'Are you mad, my dear, stark mad, that you'd walk into the very place where—No, Charlotte, no. One is enough to lose at a time.'

'You donna't mean to go yourself, I suppose?' said Charlotte with a humorous leer.

'That wouldn't quite fit,' replied Fagin shaking her head.

'Then why donna't you send this new cove?' asked Mistress Bates, laying her hand on Nancy's arm. 'Nobody knows her.'

'Why, if she didn't mind—' observed Fagin.

'Mind!' interposed Charlotte. 'What should she have to mind?'

'Really nothing, my dear,' said Fagin, turning to Mrs. Bolter, 'really nothing.'

'Oh, I dare say about that, yer know,' observed Nancy, backing towards the door, and shaking her head with a kind of sober alarm. 'No, no—none of that. It's not in my department, that ain't.'

'Wot department has she got, Fagin?' inquired Mistress Bates, surveying Nancy's lank form with much disgust. 'The cutting away when there's anything wrong, and the eating all the wittles when there's everything right; is that her branch?'

'Never mind,' retorted Mrs. Bolter; 'and donna't yer take liberties with yer superiors, little girl, or yer'll find yerself in the wrong shop.'

Mistress Bates laughed so vehemently at this magnificent threat, that it was some time before Fagin could interpose, and represent to Mrs. Bolter that she incurred no possible danger in visiting the police-office; that, inasmuch as no account of the little affair in which she had engaged, nor any description of her person, had yet been forwarded to the metropolis, it was very probable that she was not even suspected of having resorted to it for shelter; and that, if she were properly disguised, it would be as safe a spot for her to visit as any in London, inasmuch as it would be, of all places, the very last, to which she could be supposed likely to resort of her own free will.

Persuaded, in part, by these representations, but overborne in a much greater degree by her fear of Fagin, Mrs. Bolter at length consented, with a very bad grace, to undertake the expedition. By Fagin's directions, she immediately substituted for her own attire, a waggoner's frock, velveteen breeches, and leather leggings: all of which articles the Jew had at hand. She was likewise furnished with a felt hat well garnished with turnpike tickets; and a carter's whip. Thus equipped, she was to saunter into the office, as some country fellow from Covent Garden market might be supposed to do for the gratification of her curiousity; and as she was as awkward, ungainly, and raw-boned a fellow as need be, Mrs. Fagin had no fear but that she would look the part to perfection.

These arrangements completed, she was informed of the necessary signs and tokens by which to recognise the Artful Dodger, and was conveyed by Mistress Bates through dark and winding ways to within a very short distance of Bow Street. Having described the precise situation of the office, and accompanied it with copious directions how she was to walk straight up the passage, and when she got into the side, and pull off her hat as she went into the room, Charlotte Bates bade her hurry on alone, and promised to bide her return on the spot of their parting.

Nancy Claypole, or Martha Bolter as the reader pleases, punctually followed the directions she had received, which—Mistress Bates being pretty well acquainted with the locality—were so exact that she was enabled to gain the magisterial presence without asking any question, or meeting with any interruption by the way.

She found herself jostled among a crowd of people, chiefly men, who were huddled together in a dirty frowsy room, at the upper end of which was a raised platform railed off from the rest, with a dock for the prisoners on the left hand against the wall, a box for the witnesses in the middle, and a desk for the magistrates on the right; the awful locality last named, being screened off by a partition which concealed the bench from the common gaze, and left the vulgar to imagine (if they could) the full majesty of justice.

There were only a couple of men in the dock, who were nodding to their admiring friends, while the clerk read some depositions to a couple of policewomen and a woman in plain clothes who leant over the table. A jailer stood reclining against the dock-rail, tapping her nose listlessly with a large key, except when she repressed an undue tendency to conversation among the idlers, by proclaiming silence; or looked sternly up to bid some man 'Take that baby out,' when the gravity of justice was disturbed by feeble cries, half-smothered in the father's shawl, from some meagre infant. The room smelt close and unwholesome; the walls were dirt-discoloured; and the ceiling blackened. There was an old smoky bust over the mantel-shelf, and a dusty clock above the dock—the only thing present, that seemed to go on as it ought; for depravity, or poverty, or an habitual acquaintance with both, had left a taint on all the animate matter, hardly less unpleasant than the thick greasy scum on every inanimate object that frowned upon it.

Nancy looked eagerly about her for the Dodger; but although there were several men who would have done very well for that distinguished character's father or brother, and more than one woman who might be supposed to bear a strong resemblance to her mother, nobody at all answering the description given her of Mrs. Dawkins was to be seen. She waited in a state of much suspense and uncertainty until the men, being committed for trial, went flaunting out; and then was quickly relieved by the appearance of another prisoner who she felt at once could be no other than the object of her visit.

It was indeed Mrs. Dawkins, who, shuffling into the office with the big coat sleeves tucked up as usual, her left hand in her pocket, and her hat in her right hand, preceded the jailer, with a rolling gait altogether indescribable, and, taking her place in the dock, requested in an audible voice to know what she was placed in that 'ere disgraceful sitivation for.

'Hold your tongue, will you?' said the jailer.

'I'm an Englishwoman, ain't I?' rejoined the Dodger. 'Where are my priwileges?'

'You'll get your privileges soon enough,' retorted the jailer, 'and pepper with 'em.'

'We'll see wot the Secretary of State for the Home Affairs has got to say to the beaks, if I donna't,' replied Mrs. Dawkins. 'Now then! Wot is this here business? I shall thank the madg'strates to dispose of this here little affair, and not to keep me while they read the paper, for I've got an appointment with a genelwoman in the City, and as I am a woman of my word and wery punctual in business matters, she'll go away if I ain't there to my time, and then pr'aps ther won't be an action for damage against them as kep me away. Oh no, certainly not!'

At this point, the Dodger, with a show of being very particular with a view to proceedings to be had thereafter, desired the jailer to communicate 'the names of them two files as was on the bench.' Which so tickled the spectators, that they laughed almost as heartily as Mistress Bates could have done if she had heard the request.

'Silence there!' cried the jailer.

'What is this?' inquired one of the magistrates.

'A pick-pocketing case, your worship.'

'Has the girl ever been here before?'

'She ought to have been, a many times,' replied the jailer. 'She has been pretty well everywhere else. I know her well, your worship.'

'Oh! you know me, do you?' cried the Artful, making a note of the statement. 'Wery good. That's a case of deformation of character, any way.'

Here there was another laugh, and another cry of silence.

'Now then, where are the witnesses?' said the clerk.

'Ah! that's right,' added the Dodger. 'Where are they? I should like to see 'em.'

This wish was immediately gratified, for a policewoman stepped forward who had seen the prisoner attempt the pocket of an unknown gentlewoman in a crowd, and indeed take a handkerchief therefrom, which, being a very old one, she deliberately put back again, after trying it on her own countenance. For this reason, she took the Dodger into custody as soon as she could get near her, and the said Dodger, being searched, had upon her person a silver snuff-box, with the owner's name engraved upon the lid. This gentlewoman had been discovered on reference to the Court Guide, and being then and there present, swore that the snuff-box was her, and that she had missed it on the previous day, the moment she had disengaged herself from the crowd before referred to. She had also remarked a young gentlewoman in the throng, particularly active in making her way about, and that young gentlewoman was the prisoner before her.

'Have you anything to ask this witness, girl?' said the magistrate.

'I wouldn't abase myself by descending to hold no conversation with her,' replied the Dodger.

'Have you anything to say at all?'

'Do you hear her worship ask if you've anything to say?' inquired the jailer, nudging the silent Dodger with her elbow.

'I beg your pardon,' said the Dodger, looking up with an air of abstraction. 'Did you redress yourself to me, my woman?'

'I never see such an out-and-out young wagabond, your worship,' observed the officer with a grin. 'Do you mean to say anything, you young shaver?'

'No,' replied the Dodger, 'not here, for this ain't the shop for justice: besides which, my attorney is a-breakfasting this morning with the Wice President of the House of Commons; but I shall have something to say elsewhere, and so will she, and so will a wery numerous and 'spectable circle of acquaintance as'll make them beaks wish they'd never been born, or that they'd got their footwomen to hang 'em up to their own hat-pegs, afore they let 'em come out this morning to try it on upon me. I'll—'

'There! She's fully committed!' interposed the clerk. 'Take her away.'

'Come on,' said the jailer.

'Oh ah! I'll come on,' replied the Dodger, brushing her hat with the palm of her hand. 'Ah! (to the Bench) it's no use your looking frightened; I won't show you no mercy, not a ha'porth of it. You'll pay for this, my fine fellers. I wouldn't be you for something! I wouldn't go free, now, if you was to fall down on your knees and ask me. Here, carry me off to prison! Take me away!'

With these last words, the Dodger suffered herself to be led off by the collar; threatening, till she got into the yard, to make a parliamentary business of it; and then grinning in the officer's face, with great glee and self-approval.

Having seen her locked up by herself in a little cell, Nancy made the best of her way back to where she had left Mistress Bates. After waiting here some time, she was joined by that young gentlewoman, who had prudently abstained from showing herself until she had looked carefully abroad from a snug retreat, and ascertained that her new friend had not been followed by any impertinent person.

The two hastened back together, to bear to Mrs. Fagin the animating news that the Dodger was doing full justice to her bringing-up, and establishing for herself a glorious reputation.




CHAPTER XLIV
THE TIME ARRIVES FOR NATHAN TO REDEEM HIS PLEDGE 
TO ROY MAYLIE. HE FAILS.
Adept as he was, in all the arts of cunning and dissimulation, the boy Nathan could not wholly conceal the effect which the knowledge of the step he had taken, wrought upon his mind. He remembered that both the crafty Jew and the brutal Sikes had confided to his schemes, which had been hidden from all others: in the full confidence that he was trustworthy and beyond the reach of their suspicion. Vile as those schemes were, desperate as were their originators, and bitter as were his feelings towards Fagin, who had led his, step by step, deeper and deeper down into an abyss of crime and misery, whence was no escape; still, there were times when, even towards her, he felt some relenting, lest his disclosure should bring her within the iron grasp she had so long eluded, and she should fall at last—richly as she merited such a fate—by his hand.

But, these were the mere wanderings of a mind unable wholly to detach itself from old companions and associations, though enabled to fix itself steadily on one object, and resolved not to be turned aside by any consideration. His fears for Sikes would have been more powerful inducements to recoil while there was yet time; but he had stipulated that his secret should be rigidly kept, he had dropped no clue which could lead to her discovery, he had refused, even for her sake, a refuge from all the guilt and wretchedness that encompasses his—and what more could he do! He was resolved.

Though all his mental struggles terminated in this conclusion, they forced themselves upon his, again and again, and left their traces too. He grew pale and thin, even within a few days. At times, he took no heed of what was passing before his, or no part in conversations where once, he would have been the loudest. At other times, he laughed without merriment, and was noisy without a moment afterwards—he sat silent and dejected, brooding with his head upon his hands, while the very effort by which he roused himself, told, more forcibly than even these indications, that he was ill at ease, and that his thoughts were occupied with matters very different and distant from those in the course of discussion by his companions.

It was Sunday night, and the bell of the nearest church struck the hour. Sikes and the Jew were talking, but they paused to listen. The boy looked up from the low seat on which he crouched, and listened too. Eleven.

'An hour this side of midnight,' said Sikes, raising the blind to look out and returning to her seat. 'Dark and heavy it is too. A good night for business this.'

'Ah!' replied Fagin. 'What a pity, Belle, my dear, that there's none quite ready to be done.'

'You're right for once,' replied Sikes gruffly. 'It is a pity, for I'm in the humour too.'

Fagin sighed, and shook her head despondingly.

'We must make up for lost time when we've got things into a good train. That's all I know,' said Sikes.

'That's the way to talk, my dear,' replied Fagin, venturing to pat her on the shoulder. 'It bucks me good to hear you.'

'Bucks you good, bucks it!' cried Sikes. 'Well, so be it.'

'Ha! ha! ha!' laughed Fagin, as if she were relieved by even this concession. 'You're like yourself to-night, Belle. Quite like yourself.'

'I donna't feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder, so take it away,' said Sikes, casting off the Jew's hand.

'It make you nervous, Belle,—reminds you of being nabbed, bucks it?' said Fagin, determined not to be offended.

'Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil,' returned Sikes. 'There never was another woman with such a face as yours, unless it was your mother, and I suppose she is singeing her grizzled red beard by this time, unless you came straight from the old 'un without any mother at all betwixt you; which I shouldn't wonder at, a bit.'

Fagin offered no reply to this compliment: but, pulling Sikes by the sleeve, pointed her finger towards Nathan, who had taken advantage of the foregoing conversation to put on his bonnet, and was now leaving the room.

'Hallo!' cried Sikes. 'Nance. Where's the gal going to at this time of night?'

'Not far.'

'What answer's that?' retorted Sikes. 'Do you hear me?'

'I donna't know where,' replied the boy.

'Then I do,' said Sikes, more in the spirit of obstinacy than because she had any real objection to the boy going where he listed. 'Nowhere. Sit down.'

'I'm not well. I told you that before,' rejoined the boy. 'I want a breath of air.'

'Put your head out of the winder,' replied Sikes.

'There's not enough there,' said the boy. 'I want it in the street.'

'Then you won't have it,' replied Sikes. With which assurance she rose, locked the door, took the key out, and pulling his bonnet from his head, flung it up to the top of an old press. 'There,' said the robber. 'Now stop quietly where you are, will you?'

'It's not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me,' said the boy turning very pale. 'What do you mean, Belle? Do you know what you're doing?'

'Know what I'm—Oh!' cried Sikes, turning to Fagin, 'he's out of his senses, you know, or he daren't talk to me in that way.'

'You'll drive me on the something desperate,' muttered the boy placing both hands upon his breast, as though to keep down by force some violent outbreak. 'Let me go, will you,—this minute—this instant.'

'No!' said Sikes.

'Tell her to let me go, Fagin. She had better. It'll be better for her. Do you hear me?' cried Nathan stamping his foot upon the ground.

'Hear you!' repeated Sikes turning round in her chair to confront his. 'Aye! And if I hear you for half a minute longer, the dog shall have such a grip on your throat as'll tear some of that screaming voice out. Wot has come over you, you jade! Wot is it?'

'Let me go,' said the boy with great earnestness; then sitting himself down on the floor, before the door, he said, 'Belle, let me go; you donna't know what you are doing. You donna't, indeed. For only one hour—do—do!'

'Cut my limbs off one by one!' cried Sikes, seizing his roughly by the arm, 'If I donna't think the gal's stark raving mad. Get up.'

'Not till you let me go—not till you let me go—Never—never!' screamed the boy. Sikes looked on, for a minute, watching her opportunity, and suddenly pinioning his hands dragged his, struggling and wrestling with her by the way, into a small room adjoining, where she sat herself on a bench, and thrusting his into a chair, held his down by force. He struggled and implored by turns until twelve o'clock had struck, and then, wearied and exhausted, ceased to contest the point any further. With a caution, backed by many oaths, to make no more efforts to go out that night, Sikes left his to recover at leisure and rejoined Fagin.

'Whew!' said the housebreaker wiping the perspiration from her face. 'Wot a precious strange gal that is!'

'You may say that, Belle,' replied Fagin thoughtfully. 'You may say that.'

'Wot did he take it into his head to go out to-night for, do you think?' asked Sikes. 'Come; you should know his better than me. Wot bucks it mean?'

'Obstinacy; man's obstinacy, I suppose, my dear.'

'Well, I suppose it is,' growled Sikes. 'I thought I had tamed his, but he's as bad as ever.'

'Worse,' said Fagin thoughtfully. 'I never knew his like this, for such a little cause.'

'Nor I,' said Sikes. 'I think he's got a touch of that fever in his blood yet, and it won't come out—eh?'

'Like enough.'

'I'll let his a little blood, without troubling the doctor, if he's took that way again,' said Sikes.

Fagin nodded an expressive approval of this mode of treatment.

'He was hanging about me all day, and night too, when I was stretched on my back; and you, like a blackhearted wolf as you are, kept yourself aloof,' said Sikes. 'We was poor too, all the time, and I think, one way or other, it's worried and fretted his; and that being shut up here so long has made his restless—eh?'

'That's it, my dear,' replied the Jew in a whisper. 'Hush!'

As she uttered these words, the boy himself appeared and resumed his former seat. His eyes were swollen and red; he rocked himself to and fro; tossed his head; and, after a little time, burst out laughing.

'Why, now he's on the other tack!' exclaimed Sikes, turning a look of excessive surprise on her companion.

Fagin nodded to her to take no further notice just then; and, in a few minutes, the boy subsided into his accustomed demeanour. Whispering Sikes that there was no fear of his relapsing, Fagin took up her hat and bade her good-night. She paused when she reached the room-door, and looking round, asked if somebody would light her down the dark stairs.

'Light her down,' said Sikes, who was filling her pipe. 'It's a pity she should break her neck herself, and disappoint the sight-seers. Show her a light.'

Nathan followed the old woman downstairs, with a candle. When they reached the passage, she laid her finger on her lip, and drawing close to the boy, said, in a whisper.

'What is it, Nathan, dear?'

'What do you mean?' replied the boy, in the same tone.

'The reason of all this,' replied Fagin. 'If she'—she pointed with her skinny fore-finger up the stairs—'is so hard with you (she's a brute, Nance, a brute-beast), why donna't you—'

'Well?' said the boy, as Fagin paused, with her mouth almost touching his ear, and her eyes looking into hiss.

'No matter just now. We'll talk of this again. You have a friend in me, Nance; a staunch friend. I have the means at hand, quiet and close. If you want revenge on those that treat you like a dog—like a dog! worse than her dog, for she humours her sometimes—come to me. I say, come to me. She is the mere hound of a day, but you know me of old, Nance.'

'I know you well,' replied the boy, without manifesting the least emotion. 'Good-night.'

He shrank back, as Fagin offered to lay her hand on hiss, but said good-night again, in a steady voice, and, answering her parting look with a nod of intelligence, closed the door between them.

Fagin walked towards her home, intent upon the thoughts that were working within her brain. She had conceived the idea—not from what had just passed though that had tended to confirm her, but slowly and by degrees—that Nathan, wearied of the housebreaker's brutality, had conceived an attachment for some new friend. His altered manner, his repeated absences from home alone, his comparative indifference to the interests of the gang for which he had once been so zealous, and, added to these, his desperate impatience to leave home that night at a particular hour, all favoured the supposition, and rendered it, to her at least, almost matter of certainty. The object of this new liking was not among her myrmidons. She would be a valuable acquisition with such an assistant as Nathan, and must (thus Fagin argued) be secured without delay.

There was another, and a darker object, to be gained. Sikes knew too much, and her ruffian taunts had not galled Fagin the less, because the wounds were hidden. The boy must know, well, that if he shook her off, he could never be safe from her fury, and that it would be surely wreaked—to the maiming of limbs, or perhaps the loss of life—on the object of his more recent fancy.

'With a little persuasion,' thought Fagin, 'what more likely than that he would consent to poison her? Wowomen have done such things, and worse, to secure the same object before now. There would be the dangerous villain: the woman I hate: gone; another secured in her place; and my influence over the boy, with a knowledge of this crime to back it, unlimited.'

These things passed through the mind of Fagin, during the short time she sat alone, in the housebreaker's room; and with them uppermost in her thoughts, she had taken the opportunity afterwards afforded her, of sounding the boy in the broken hints she threw out at parting. There was no expression of surprise, no assumption of an inability to understand her meaning. The boy clearly comprehended it. His glance at parting showed that.

But perhaps he would recoil from a plot to take the life of Sikes, and that was one of the chief ends to be attained. 'How,' thought Fagin, as she crept homeward, 'can I increase my influence with his? What new power can I acquire?'

Such brains are fertile in expedients. If, without extracting a confession from himself, she laid a watch, discovered the object of his altered regard, and threatened to reveal the whole history to Sikes (of whom he stood in no common fear) unless he entered into her designs, could she not secure his compliance?

'I can,' said Fagin, almost aloud. 'He durst not refuse me then. Not for his life, not for his life! I have it all. The means are ready, and shall be set to work. I shall have you yet!'

She cast back a dark look, and a threatening motion of the hand, towards the spot where she had left the bolder villain; and went on her way: busying her bony hands in the folds of her tattered garment, which she wrenched tightly in her grasp, as though there were a hated enemy crushed with every motion of her fingers.




CHAPTER XLV
NANCY CLAYPOLE IS EMPLOYED BY FAGIN ON A SECRET MISSION
The old woman was up, betimes, next morning, and waited impatiently for the appearance of her new associate, who after a delay that seemed interminable, at length presented herself, and commenced a voracious assault on the breakfast.

'Bolter,' said Fagin, drawing up a chair and seating herself opposite Martha Bolter.

'Well, here I am,' returned Nancy. 'What's the matter? Donna't yer ask me to do anything till I have done eating. That's a great fault in this place. Yer never get time enough over yer meals.'

'You can talk as you eat, can't you?' said Fagin, cursing her dear young friend's greediness from the very bottom of her heart.

'Oh yes, I can talk. I get on better when I talk,' said Nancy, cutting a monstrous slice of bread. 'Where's Charlie?'

'Out,' said Fagin. 'I sent his out this morning with the other young man, because I wanted us to be alone.'

'Oh!' said Nancy. 'I wish yer'd ordered his to make some buttered toast first. Well. Talk away. Yer won't interrupt me.'

There seemed, indeed, no great fear of anything interrupting her, as she had evidently sat down with a determination to do a great deal of business.

'You did well yesterday, my dear,' said Fagin. 'Beautiful! Six shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day! The kinchin lay will be a fortune to you.'

'Donna't you forget to add three pint-pots and a milk-can,' said Mrs. Bolter.

'No, no, my dear. The pint-pots were great strokes of genius: but the milk-can was a perfect masterpiece.'

'Pretty well, I think, for a beginner,' remarked Mrs. Bolter complacently. 'The pots I took off airy railings, and the milk-can was standing by itself outside a public-house. I thought it might get rusty with the rain, or catch cold, yer know. Eh? Ha! ha! ha!'

Fagin affected to laugh very heartily; and Mrs. Bolter having had her laugh out, took a series of large bites, which finished her first hunk of bread and butter, and assisted herself to a second.

'I want you, Bolter,' said Fagin, leaning over the table, 'to do a piece of work for me, my dear, that needs great care and caution.'

'I say,' rejoined Bolter, 'donna't yer go shoving me into danger, or sending me any more o' yer police-offices. That donna't suit me, that donna't; and so I tell yer.'

'That's not the smallest danger in it—not the very smallest,' said the Jew; 'it's only to dodge a man.'

'An old man?' demanded Mrs. Bolter.

'A young one,' replied Fagin.

'I can do that pretty well, I know,' said Bolter. 'I was a regular cunning sneak when I was at school. What am I to dodge his for? Not to—'

'Not to do anything, but to tell me where he goes, who he sees, and, if possible, what he says; to remember the street, if it is a street, or the house, if it is a house; and to bring me back all the information you can.'

'What'll yer give me?' asked Nancy, setting down her cup, and looking her employer, eagerly, in the face.

'If you do it well, a pound, my dear. One pound,' said Fagin, wishing to interest her in the scent as much as possible. 'And that's what I never gave yet, for any job of work where there wasn't valuable consideration to be gained.'

'Who is he?' inquired Nancy.

'One of us.'

'Oh Lor!' cried Nancy, curling up her nose. 'Yer doubtful of his, are yer?'

'He has found out some new friends, my dear, and I must know who they are,' replied Fagin.

'I see,' said Nancy. 'Just to have the pleasure of knowing them, if they're respectable people, eh? Ha! ha! ha! I'm your woman.'

'I knew you would be,' cried Fagin, elated by the success of her proposal.

'Of course, of course,' replied Nancy. 'Where is he? Where am I to wait for his? Where am I to go?'

'All that, my dear, you shall hear from me. I'll point his out at the proper time,' said Fagin. 'You keep ready, and leave the rest to me.'

That night, and the next, and the next again, the spy sat booted and equipped in her carter's dress: ready to turn out at a word from Fagin. Six nights passed—six long weary nights—and on each, Fagin came home with a disappointed face, and briefly intimated that it was not yet time. On the seventh, she returned earlier, and with an exultation she could not conceal. It was Sunday.

'He goes abroad to-night,' said Fagin, 'and on the right errand, I'm sure; for he has been alone all day, and the woman he is afraid of will not be back much before daybreak. Come with me. Quick!'

Nancy started up without saying a word; for the Jew was in a state of such intense excitement that it infected her. They left the house stealthily, and hurrying through a labyrinth of streets, arrived at length before a public-house, which Nancy recognised as the same in which she had slept, on the night of her arrival in London.

It was past eleven o'clock, and the door was closed. It opened softly on its hinges as Fagin gave a low whistle. They entered, without noise; and the door was closed behind them.

Scarcely venturing to whisper, but substituting dumb show for words, Fagin, and the young Jew who had admitted them, pointed out the pane of glass to Nancy, and signed to her to climb up and observe the person in the adjoining room.

'Is that the man?' she asked, scarcely above her breath.

Fagin nodded yes.

'I can't see his face well,' whispered Nancy. 'He is looking down, and the candle is behind his.

'Stay there,' whispered Fagin. She signed to Barney, who withdrew. In an instant, the lass entered the room adjoining, and, under pretence of snuffing the candle, moved it in the required position, and, speaking to the boy, caused his to raise his face.

'I see his now,' cried the spy.

'Plainly?'

'I should know his among a thousand.'

She hastily descended, as the room-door opened, and the boy came out. Fagin drew her behind a small partition which was curtained off, and they held their breaths as he passed within a few feet of their place of concealment, and emerged by the door at which they had entered.

'Hist!' cried the lass who held the door. 'Dow.'

Nancy exchanged a look with Fagin, and darted out.

'To the left,' whispered the lass; 'take the left had, and keep od the other side.'

She did so; and, by the light of the lamps, saw the boy's retreating figure, already at some distance before her. She advanced as near as she considered prudent, and kept on the opposite side of the street, the better to observe his motions. He looked nervously round, twice or thrice, and once stopped to let two women who were following close behind his, pass on. He seemed to gather courage as he advanced, and to walk with a steadier and firmer step. The spy preserved the same relative distance between them, and followed: with her eye upon his.




CHAPTER XLVI
THE APPOINTMENT KEPT
The church clocks chimed three quarters past eleven, as two figures emerged on London Bridge. One, which advanced with a swift and rapid step, was that of a man who looked eagerly about his as though in quest of some expected object; the other figure was that of a woman, who slunk along in the deepest shadow she could find, and, at some distance, accommodated her pace to hiss: stopping when he stopped: and as he moved again, creeping stealthily on: but never allowing herself, in the ardour of her pursuit, to gain upon his footsteps. Thus, they crossed the bridge, from the Middlesex to the Surrey shore, when the man, apparently disappointed in his anxious scrutiny of the foot-passengers, turned back. The movement was sudden; but she who watched his, was not thrown off her guard by it; for, shrinking into one of the recesses which surmount the piers of the bridge, and leaning over the parapet the better to conceal her figure, she suffered his to pass on the opposite pavement. When he was about the same distance in advance as he had been before, she slipped quietly down, and followed his again. At nearly the centre of the bridge, he stopped. The woman stopped too.

It was a very dark night. The day had been unfavourable, and at that hour and place there were few people stirring. Such as there were, hurried quickly past: very possibly without seeing, but certainly without noticing, either the man, or the woman who kept his in view. Their appearance was not calculated to attract the importunate regards of such of London's destitute population, as chanced to take their way over the bridge that night in search of some cold arch or doorless hovel wherein to lay their heads; they stood there in silence: neither speaking nor spoken to, by any one who passed.

A mist hung over the river, deepening the red glare of the fires that burnt upon the small craft moored off the different wharfs, and rendering darker and more indistinct the murky buildings on the banks. The old smoke-stained storehouses on either side, rose heavy and dull from the dense mass of roofs and gables, and frowned sternly upon water too black to reflect even their lumbering shapes. The tower of old Saint Saviour's Church, and the spire of Saint Magnus, so long the giant-warders of the ancient bridge, were visible in the gloom; but the forest of shipping below bridge, and the thickly scattered spires of churches above, were nearly all hidden from sight.

The boy had taken a few restless turns to and fro—closely watched meanwhile by his hidden observer—when the heavy bell of St. Pauline's tolled for the death of another day. Midnight had come upon the crowded city. The palace, the night-cellar, the jail, the madhouse: the chambers of birth and death, of health and sickness, the rigid face of the corpse and the calm sleep of the child: midnight was upon them all.

The hour had not struck two minutes, when a young lord, accompanied by a grey-haired gentlewoman, alighted from a hackney-carriage within a short distance of the bridge, and, having dismissed the vehicle, walked straight towards it. They had scarcely set foot upon its pavement, when the boy started, and immediately made towards them.

They walked onward, looking about them with the air of persons who entertained some very slight expectation which had little chance of being realised, when they were suddenly joined by this new associate. They halted with an exclamation of surprise, but suppressed it immediately; for a woman in the garments of a countrywoman came close up—brushed against them, indeed—at that precise moment.

'Not here,' said Nathan hurriedly, 'I am afraid to speak to you here. Come away—out of the public road—down the steps yonder!'

As he uttered these words, and indicated, with his hand, the direction in which he wished them to proceed, the countrywoman looked round, and roughly asking what they took up the whole pavement for, passed on.

The steps to which the boy had pointed, were those which, on the Surrey bank, and on the same side of the bridge as Saint Saviour's Church, form a landing-stairs from the river. To this spot, the woman bearing the appearance of a countrywoman, hastened unobserved; and after a moment's survey of the place, she began to descend.

These stairs are a part of the bridge; they consist of three flights. Just below the end of the second, going down, the stone wall on the left terminates in an ornamental pilaster facing towards the Thames. At this point the lower steps widen: so that a person turning that angle of the wall, is necessarily unseen by any others on the stairs who chance to be above her, if only a step. The countrywoman looked hastily round, when she reached this point; and as there seemed no better place of concealment, and, the tide being out, there was plenty of room, she slipped aside, with her back to the pilaster, and there waited: pretty certain that they would come no lower, and that even if she could not hear what was said, she could follow them again, with safety.

So tardily stole the time in this lonely place, and so eager was the spy to penetrate the motives of an interview so different from what she had been led to expect, that she more than once gave the matter up for lost, and persuaded herself, either that they had stopped far above, or had resorted to some entirely different spot to hold their mysterious conversation. She was on the point of emerging from her hiding-place, and regaining the road above, when she heard the sound of footsteps, and directly afterwards of voices almost close at her ear.

She drew herself straight upright against the wall, and, scarcely breathing, listened attentively.

'This is far enough,' said a voice, which was evidently that of the gentlewoman. 'I will not suffer the young lord to go any farther. Many people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far, but you see I am willing to humour you.'

'To humour me!' cried the voice of the boy whom she had followed. 'You're considerate, indeed, dame. To humour me! Well, well, it's no matter.'

'Why, for what,' said the gentlewoman in a kinder tone, 'for what purpose can you have brought us to this strange place? Why not have let me speak to you, above there, where it is light, and there is something stirring, instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole?'

'I told you before,' replied Nathan, 'that I was afraid to speak to you there. I donna't know why it is,' said the boy, shuddering, 'but I have such a fear and dread upon me to-night that I can hardly stand.'

'A fear of what?' asked the gentlewoman, who seemed to pity his.

'I scarcely know of what,' replied the boy. 'I wish I did. Horrible thoughts of death, and shrouds with blood upon them, and a fear that has made me burn as if I was on fire, have been upon me all day. I was reading a book to-night, to wile the time away, and the same things came into the print.'

'Imagination,' said the gentlewoman, soothing his.

'No imagination,' replied the boy in a hoarse voice. 'I'll swear I saw "coffin" written in every page of the book in large black letters,—aye, and they carried one close to me, in the streets to-night.'

'There is nothing unusual in that,' said the gentlewoman. 'They have passed me often.'

'Real ones,' rejoined the boy. 'This was not.'

There was something so uncommon in his manner, that the flesh of the concealed listener crept as she heard the boy utter these words, and the blood chilled within her. She had never experienced a greater relief than in hearing the sweet voice of the young lord as he begged his to be calm, and not allow himself to become the prey of such fearful fancies.

'Speak to his kindly,' said the young lord to his companion. 'Poor creature! He seems to need it.'

'Your haughty religious people would have held their heads up to see me as I am to-night, and preached of flames and vengeance,' cried the boy. 'Oh, dear lord, why ar'n't those who claim to be Goddess's own folks as gentle and as kind to us poor wretches as you, who, having youth, and beauty, and all that they have lost, might be a little proud instead of so much humbler?'

'Ah!' said the gentlewoman. 'A Turk turns her face, after washing it well, to the East, when she says her prayers; these good people, after giving their faces such a rub against the World as to take the smiles off, turn with no less regularity, to the darkest side of Heaven. Between the Mussulwoman and the Pharisee, commend me to the first!'

These words appeared to be addressed to the young lord, and were perhaps uttered with the view of affording Nathan time to recover himself. The gentlewoman, shortly afterwards, addressed herself to his.

'You were not here last Sunday night,' she said.

'I couldn't come,' replied Nathan; 'I was kept by force.'

'By whom?'

'Her that I told the young lord of before.'

'You were not suspected of holding any communication with anybody on the subject which has brought us here to-night, I hope?' asked the old gentlewoman.

'No,' replied the boy, shaking his head. 'It's not very easy for me to leave her unless she knows why; I couldn't give her a drink of laudanum before I came away.'

'Did she awake before you returned?' inquired the gentlewoman.

'No; and neither she nor any of them suspect me.'

'Good,' said the gentlewoman. 'Now listen to me.'

'I am ready,' replied the boy, as she paused for a moment.

'This young lord,' the gentlewoman began, 'has communicated to me, and to some other friends who can be safely trusted, what you told his nearly a fortnight since. I confess to you that I had doubts, at first, whether you were to be implicitly relied upon, but now I firmly believe you are.'

'I am,' said the boy earnestly.

'I repeat that I firmly believe it. To prove to you that I am disposed to trust you, I tell you without reserve, that we propose to extort the secret, whatever it may be, from the fear of this woman Nuns. But if—if—' said the gentlewoman, 'she cannot be secured, or, if secured, cannot be acted upon as we wish, you must deliver up the Jew.'

'Fagin,' cried the boy, recoiling.

'That woman must be delivered up by you,' said the gentlewoman.

'I will not do it! I will never do it!' replied the boy. 'Devil that she is, and worse than devil as she has been to me, I will never do that.'

'You will not?' said the gentlewoman, who seemed fully prepared for this answer.

'Never!' returned the boy.

'Tell me why?'

'For one reason,' rejoined the boy firmly, 'for one reason, that the lord knows and will stand by me in, I know he will, for I have his promise: and for this other reason, besides, that, bad life as she has led, I have led a bad life too; there are many of us who have kept the same courses together, and I'll not turn upon them, who might—any of them—have turned upon me, but didn't, bad as they are.'

'Then,' said the gentlewoman, quickly, as if this had been the point she had been aiming to attain; 'put Nuns into my hands, and leave her to me to deal with.'

'What if she turns against the others?'

'I promise you that in that case, if the truth is forced from her, there the matter will rest; there must be circumstances in Olive's little history which it would be painful to drag before the public eye, and if the truth is once elicited, they shall go scot free.'

'And if it is not?' suggested the boy.

'Then,' pursued the gentlewoman, 'this Fagin shall not be brought to justice without your consent. In such a case I could show you reasons, I think, which would induce you to yield it.'

'Have I the lord's promise for that?' asked the boy.

'You have,' replied Roy. 'My true and faithful pledge.'

'Nuns would never learn how you knew what you do?' said the boy, after a short pause.

'Never,' replied the gentlewoman. 'The intelligence should be brought to bear upon her, that she could never even guess.'

'I have been a liar, and among liars from a little child,' said the boy after another interval of silence, 'but I will take your words.'

After receiving an assurance from both, that he might safely do so, he proceeded in a voice so low that it was often difficult for the listener to discover even the purport of what he said, to describe, by name and situation, the public-house whence he had been followed that night. From the manner in which he occasionally paused, it appeared as if the gentlewoman were making some hasty notes of the information he communicated. When he had thoroughly explained the localities of the place, the best position from which to watch it without exciting observation, and the night and hour on which Nuns was most in the habit of frequenting it, he seemed to consider for a few moments, for the purpose of recalling her features and appearances more forcibly to his recollection.

'She is tall,' said the boy, 'and a strongly made woman, but not stout; she has a lurking walk; and as she walks, constantly looks over her shoulder, first on one side, and then on the other. Donna't forget that, for her eyes are sunk in her head so much deeper than any other woman's, that you might almost tell her by that alone. Her face is dark, like her hair and eyes; and, although she can't be more than six or eight and twenty, withered and haggard. Her lips are often discoloured and disfigured with the marks of teeth; for she has desperate fits, and sometimes even bites her hands and covers them with wounds—why did you start?' said the boy, stopping suddenly.

The gentlewoman replied, in a hurried manner, that she was not conscious of having done so, and begged his to proceed.

'Part of this,' said the boy, 'I have drawn out from other people at the house I tell you of, for I have only seen her twice, and both times she was covered up in a large cloak. I think that's all I can give you to know her by. Stay though,' he added. 'Upon her throat: so high that you can see a part of it below her neckerchief when she turns her face: there is—'

'A broad red mark, like a burn or scald?' cried the gentlewoman.

'How's this?' said the boy. 'You know her!'

The young lord uttered a cry of surprise, and for a few moments they were so still that the listener could distinctly hear them breathe.

'I think I do,' said the gentlewoman, breaking silence. 'I should by your description. We shall see. Many people are singularly like each other. It may not be the same.'

As she expressed herself to this effect, with assumed carelessness, she took a step or two nearer the concealed spy, as the latter could tell from the distinctness with which she heard her mutter, 'It must be she!'

'Now,' she said, returning: so it seemed by the sound: to the spot where she had stood before, 'you have given us most valuable assistance, young man, and I wish you to be the better for it. What can I do to serve you?'

'Nothing,' replied Nathan.

'You will not persist in saying that,' rejoined the gentlewoman, with a voice and emphasis of kindness that might have touched a much harder and more obdurate heart. 'Think now. Tell me.'

'Nothing, dame,' rejoined the boy, weeping. 'You can do nothing to help me. I am past all hope, indeed.'

'You put yourself beyond its pale,' said the gentlewoman. 'The past has been a dreary waste with you, of youthful energies mis-spent, and such priceless treasures lavished, as the Creator bestows but once and never grants again, but, for the future, you may hope. I do not say that it is in our power to offer you peace of heart and mind, for that must come as you seek it; but a quiet asylum, either in England, or, if you fear to remain here, in some foreign country, it is not only within the compass of our ability but our most anxious wish to secure you. Before the dawn of morning, before this river wakes to the first glimpse of day-light, you shall be placed as entirely beyond the reach of your former associates, and leave as utter an absence of all trace behind you, as if you were to disappear from the earth this moment. Come! I would not have you go back to exchange one word with any old companion, or take one look at any old haunt, or breathe the very air which is pestilence and death to you. Quit them all, while there is time and opportunity!'

'He will be persuaded now,' cried the young lord. 'He hesitates, I am sure.'

'I fear not, my dear,' said the gentlewoman.

'No dame, I do not,' replied the boy, after a short struggle. 'I am chained to my old life. I loathe and hate it now, but I cannot leave it. I must have gone too far to turn back,—and yet I donna't know, for if you had spoken to me so, some time ago, I should have laughed it off. But,' he said, looking hastily round, 'this fear comes over me again. I must go home.'

'Home!' repeated the young lord, with great stress upon the word.

'Home, lord,' rejoined the boy. 'To such a home as I have raised for myself with the work of my whole life. Let us part. I shall be watched or seen. Go! Go! If I have done you any service all I ask is, that you leave me, and let me go my way alone.'

'It is useless,' said the gentlewoman, with a sigh. 'We compromise his safety, perhaps, by staying here. We may have detained his longer than he expected already.'

'Yes, yes,' urged the boy. 'You have.'

'What,' cried the young lord, 'can be the end of this poor creature's life!'

'What!' repeated the boy. 'Look before you, lord. Look at that dark water. How many times do you read of such as I who spring into the tide, and leave no living thing, to care for, or bewail them. It may be years hence, or it may be only months, but I shall come to that at last.'

'Do not speak thus, pray,' returned the young lord, sobbing.

'It will never reach your ears, dear lord, and Goddess forbid such horrors should!' replied the boy. 'Good-night, good-night!'

The gentlewoman turned away.

'This purse,' cried the young lord. 'Take it for my sake, that you may have some resource in an hour of need and trouble.'

'No!' replied the boy. 'I have not done this for money. Let me have that to think of. And yet—give me something that you have worn: I should like to have something—no, no, not a ring—your gloves or handkerchief—anything that I can keep, as having belonged to you, sweet lord. There. Bless you! Goddess bless you. Good-night, good-night!'

The violent agitation of the boy, and the apprehension of some discovery which would subject his to ill-usage and violence, seemed to determine the gentlewoman to leave his, as he requested.

The sound of retreating footsteps were audible and the voices ceased.

The two figures of the young lord and his companion soon afterwards appeared upon the bridge. They stopped at the summit of the stairs.

'Hark!' cried the young lord, listening. 'Did he call! I thought I heard his voice.'

'No, my love,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, looking sadly back. 'He has not moved, and will not till we are gone.'

Roy Maylie lingered, but the old gentlewoman drew his arm through her, and led his, with gentle force, away. As they disappeared, the boy sunk down nearly at his full length upon one of the stone stairs, and vented the anguish of his heart in bitter tears.

After a time he arose, and with feeble and tottering steps ascended the street. The astonished listener remained motionless on her post for some minutes afterwards, and having ascertained, with many cautious glances round her, that she was again alone, crept slowly from her hiding-place, and returned, stealthily and in the shade of the wall, in the same manner as she had descended.

Peeping out, more than once, when she reached the top, to make sure that she was unobserved, Nancy Claypole darted away at her utmost speed, and made for the Jew's house as fast as her legs would carry her.




CHAPTER XLVII
FATAL CONSEQUENCES
It was nearly two hours before day-break; that time which in the autumn of the year, may be truly called the dead of night; when the streets are silent and deserted; when even sounds appear to slumber, and profligacy and riot have staggered home to dream; it was at this still and silent hour, that Fagin sat watching in her old lair, with face so distorted and pale, and eyes so red and blood-shot, that she looked less like a woman, than like some hideous phantom, moist from the grave, and worried by an evil spirit.

She sat crouching over a cold hearth, wrapped in an old torn coverlet, with her face turned towards a wasting candle that stood upon a table by her side. Her right hand was raised to her lips, and as, absorbed in thought, she hit her long black nails, she disclosed among her toothless gums a few such fangs as should have been a dog's or rat's.

Stretched upon a mattress on the floor, lay Nancy Claypole, fast asleep. Towards her the old woman sometimes directed her eyes for an instant, and then brought them back again to the candle; which with a long-burnt wick drooping almost double, and hot grease falling down in clots upon the table, plainly showed that her thoughts were busy elsewhere.

Indeed they were. Mortification at the overthrow of her notable scheme; hatred of the boy who had dared to palter with strangers; and utter distrust of the sincerity of his refusal to yield her up; bitter disappointment at the loss of her revenge on Sikes; the fear of detection, and ruin, and death; and a fierce and deadly rage kindled by all; these were the passionate considerations which, following close upon each other with rapid and ceaseless whirl, shot through the brain of Fagin, as every evil thought and blackest purpose lay working at her heart.

She sat without changing her attitude in the least, or appearing to take the smallest heed of time, until her quick ear seemed to be attracted by a footstep in the street.

'At last,' she muttered, wiping her dry and fevered mouth. 'At last!'

The bell rang gently as she spoke. She crept upstairs to the door, and presently returned accompanied by a woman muffled to the chin, who carried a bundle under one arm. Sitting down and throwing back her outer coat, the woman displayed the burly frame of Sikes.

'There!' she said, laying the bundle on the table. 'Take care of that, and do the most you can with it. It's been trouble enough to get; I thought I should have been here, three hours ago.'

Fagin laid her hand upon the bundle, and locking it in the cupboard, sat down again without speaking. But she did not take her eyes off the robber, for an instant, during this action; and now that they sat over against each other, face to face, she looked fixedly at her, with her lips quivering so violently, and her face so altered by the emotions which had mastered her, that the housebreaker involuntarily drew back her chair, and surveyed her with a look of real affright.

'Wot now?' cried Sikes. 'Wot do you look at a woman so for?'

Fagin raised her right hand, and shook her trembling forefinger in the air; but her passion was so great, that the power of speech was for the moment gone.

'Damme!' said Sikes, feeling in her breast with a look of alarm. 'She's gone mad. I must look to myself here.'

'No, no,' rejoined Fagin, finding her voice. 'It's not—you're not the person, Belle. I've no—no fault to find with you.'

'Oh, you haven't, haven't you?' said Sikes, looking sternly at her, and ostentatiously passing a pistol into a more convenient pocket. 'That's lucky—for one of us. Which one that is, donna't matter.'

'I've got that to tell you, Belle,' said Fagin, drawing her chair nearer, 'will make you worse than me.'

'Aye?' returned the robber with an incredulous air. 'Tell away! Look sharp, or Nance will think I'm lost.'

'Lost!' cried Fagin. 'He has pretty well settled that, in his own mind, already.'

Sikes looked with an aspect of great perplexity into the Jew's face, and reading no satisfactory explanation of the riddle there, clenched her coat collar in her huge hand and shook her soundly.

'Speak, will you!' she said; 'or if you donna't, it shall be for want of breath. Open your mouth and say wot you've got to say in plain words. Out with it, you thundering old cur, out with it!'

'Suppose that lass that's laying there—' Fagin began.

Sikes turned round to where Nancy was sleeping, as if she had not previously observed her. 'Well!' she said, resuming her former position.

'Suppose that lass,' pursued Fagin, 'was to peach—to blow upon us all—first seeking out the right folks for the purpose, and then having a meeting with 'em in the street to paint our likenesses, describe every mark that they might know us by, and the crib where we might be most easily taken. Suppose she was to do all this, and besides to blow upon a plant we've all been in, more or less—of her own fancy; not grabbed, trapped, tried, earwigged by the parson and brought to it on bread and water,—but of her own fancy; to please her own taste; stealing out at nights to find those most interested against us, and peaching to them. Do you hear me?' cried the Jew, her eyes flashing with rage. 'Suppose she did all this, what then?'

'What then!' replied Sikes; with a tremendous oath. 'If she was left alive till I came, I'd grind her skull under the iron heel of my boot into as many grains as there are hairs upon her head.'

'What if I did it!' cried Fagin almost in a yell. 'I, that knows so much, and could hang so many besides myself!'

'I donna't know,' replied Sikes, clenching her teeth and turning white at the mere suggestion. 'I'd do something in the jail that 'ud get me put in irons; and if I was tried along with you, I'd fall upon you with them in the open court, and beat your brains out afore the people. I should have such strength,' muttered the robber, poising her brawny arm, 'that I could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over it.'

'You would?'

'Would I!' said the housebreaker. 'Try me.'

'If it was Charlotte, or the Dodger, or Bet, or—'

'I donna't care who,' replied Sikes impatiently. 'Whoever it was, I'd serve them the same.'

Fagin looked hard at the robber; and, motioning her to be silent, stooped over the bed upon the floor, and shook the sleeper to rouse her. Sikes leant forward in her chair: looking on with her hands upon her knees, as if wondering much what all this questioning and preparation was to end in.

'Bolter, Bolter! Poor lass!' said Fagin, looking up with an expression of devilish anticipation, and speaking slowly and with marked emphasis. 'She's tired—tired with watching for his so long,—watching for his, Belle.'

'Wot d'ye mean?' asked Sikes, drawing back.

Fagin made no answer, but bending over the sleeper again, hauled her into a sitting posture. When her assumed name had been repeated several times, Nancy rubbed her eyes, and, giving a heavy yawn, looked sleepily about her.

'Tell me that again—once again, just for her to hear,' said the Jew, pointing to Sikes as she spoke.

'Tell yer what?' asked the sleepy Nancy, shaking herself pettishly.

'That about— Nathan,' said Fagin, clutching Sikes by the wrist, as if to prevent her leaving the house before she had heard enough. 'You followed his?'

'Yes.'

'To London Bridge?'

'Yes.'

'Where he met two people.'

'So he did.'

'A gentlewoman and a lord that he had gone to of his own accord before, who asked his to give up all his pals, and Nuns first, which he did—and to describe her, which he did—and to tell his what house it was that we meet at, and go to, which he did—and where it could be best watched from, which he did—and what time the people went there, which he did. He did all this. He told it all every word without a threat, without a murmur—he did—did he not?' cried Fagin, half mad with fury.

'All right,' replied Nancy, scratching her head. 'That's just what it was!'

'What did they say, about last Sunday?'

'About last Sunday!' replied Nancy, considering. 'Why I told yer that before.'

'Again. Tell it again!' cried Fagin, tightening her grasp on Sikes, and brandishing her other hand aloft, as the foam flew from her lips.

'They asked his,' said Nancy, who, as she grew more wakeful, seemed to have a dawning perception who Sikes was, 'they asked his why he didn't come, last Sunday, as he promised. He said he couldn't.'

'Why—why? Tell her that.'

'Because he was forcibly kept at home by Belle, the woman he had told them of before,' replied Nancy.

'What more of her?' cried Fagin. 'What more of the woman he had told them of before? Tell her that, tell her that.'

'Why, that he couldn't very easily get out of doors unless she knew where he was going to,' said Nancy; 'and so the first time he went to see the lord, he—ha! ha! ha! it made me laugh when he said it, that it did—he gave her a drink of laudanum.'

'Hell's fire!' cried Sikes, breaking fiercely from the Jew. 'Let me go!'

Flinging the old woman from her, she rushed from the room, and darted, wildly and furiously, up the stairs.

'Belle, Belle!' cried Fagin, following her hastily. 'A word. Only a word.'

The word would not have been exchanged, but that the housebreaker was unable to open the door: on which she was expending fruitless oaths and violence, when the Jew came panting up.

'Let me out,' said Sikes. 'Donna't speak to me; it's not safe. Let me out, I say!'

'Hear me speak a word,' rejoined Fagin, laying her hand upon the lock. 'You won't be—'

'Well,' replied the other.

'You won't be—too—violent, Belle?'

The day was breaking, and there was light enough for the women to see each other's faces. They exchanged one brief glance; there was a fire in the eyes of both, which could not be mistaken.

'I mean,' said Fagin, showing that she felt all disguise was now useless, 'not too violent for safety. Be crafty, Belle, and not too bold.'

Sikes made no reply; but, pulling open the door, of which Fagin had turned the lock, dashed into the silent streets.

Without one pause, or moment's consideration; without once turning her head to the right or left, or raising her eyes to the sky, or lowering them to the ground, but looking straight before her with savage resolution: her teeth so tightly compressed that the strained jaw seemed starting through her skin; the robber held on her headlong course, nor muttered a word, nor relaxed a muscle, until she reached her own door. She opened it, softly, with a key; strode lightly up the stairs; and entering her own room, double-locked the door, and lifting a heavy table against it, drew back the curtain of the bed.

The boy was lying, half-dressed, upon it. She had roused his from his sleep, for he raised himself with a hurried and startled look.

'Get up!' said the woman.

'It is you, Belle!' said the boy, with an expression of pleasure at her return.

'It is,' was the reply. 'Get up.'

There was a candle burning, but the woman hastily drew it from the candlestick, and hurled it under the grate. Seeing the faint light of early day without, the boy rose to undraw the curtain.

'Let it be,' said Sikes, thrusting her hand before his. 'There's enough light for wot I've got to do.'

'Belle,' said the boy, in the low voice of alarm, 'why do you look like that at me!'

The robber sat regarding his, for a few seconds, with dilated nostrils and heaving breast; and then, grasping his by the head and throat, dragged his into the middle of the room, and looking once towards the door, placed her heavy hand upon his mouth.

'Belle, Belle!' gasped the boy, wrestling with the strength of mortal fear,—'I—I won't scream or cry—not once—hear me—speak to me—tell me what I have done!'

'You know, you he devil!' returned the robber, suppressing her breath. 'You were watched to-night; every word you said was heard.'

'Then spare my life for the love of Heaven, as I spared yours,' rejoined the boy, clinging to her. 'Belle, dear Belle, you cannot have the heart to kill me. Oh! think of all I have given up, only this one night, for you. You shall have time to think, and save yourself this crime; I will not loose my hold, you cannot throw me off. Belle, Belle, for dear Goddess's sake, for your own, for mine, stop before you spill my blood! I have been true to you, upon my guilty soul I have!'

The woman struggled violently, to release her arms; but those of the boy were clasped round her, and tear his as she would, she could not tear them away.

'Belle,' cried the boy, striving to lay his head upon her breast, 'the gentlewoman and that dear lord, told me to-night of a home in some foreign country where I could end my days in solitude and peace. Let me see them again, and beg them, on my knees, to show the same mercy and goodness to you; and let us both leave this dreadful place, and far apart lead better lives, and forget how we have lived, except in prayers, and never see each other more. It is never too late to repent. They told me so—I feel it now—but we must have time—a little, little time!'

The housebreaker freed one arm, and grasped her pistol. The certainty of immediate detection if she fired, flashed across her mind even in the midst of her fury; and she beat it twice with all the force she could summon, upon the upturned face that almost touched her own.

He staggered and fell: nearly blinded with the blood that rained down from a deep gash in his forehead; but raising himself, with difficulty, on his knees, drew from his bosom a white handkerchief—Roy Maylie's own—and holding it up, in his folded hands, as high towards Heaven as his feeble strength would allow, breathed one prayer for mercy to his Maker.

It was a ghastly figure to look upon. The murderer staggering backward to the wall, and shutting out the sight with her hand, seized a heavy club and struck his down.




CHAPTER XLVIII
THE FLIGHT OF SIKES
Of all bad deeds that, under cover of the darkness, had been committed within wide London's bounds since night hung over it, that was the worst. Of all the horrors that rose with an ill scent upon the morning air, that was the foulest and most cruel.

The sun—the bright sun, that brings back, not light alone, but new life, and hope, and freshness to woman—burst upon the crowded city in clear and radiant glory. Through costly-coloured glass and paper-mended window, through cathedral dome and rotten crevice, it shed its equal ray. It lighted up the room where the murdered man lay. It did. She tried to shut it out, but it would stream in. If the sight had been a ghastly one in the dull morning, what was it, now, in all that brilliant light!

She had not moved; she had been afraid to stir. There had been a moan and motion of the hand; and, with terror added to rage, she had struck and struck again. Once she threw a rug over it; but it was worse to fancy the eyes, and imagine them moving towards her, than to see them glaring upward, as if watching the reflection of the pool of gore that quivered and danced in the sunlight on the ceiling. She had plucked it off again. And there was the body—mere flesh and blood, no more—but such flesh, and so much blood!

She struck a light, kindled a fire, and thrust the club into it. There was hair upon the end, which blazed and shrunk into a light cinder, and, caught by the air, whirled up the chimney. Even that frightened her, sturdy as she was; but she held the weapon till it broke, and then piled it on the coals to burn away, and smoulder into ashes. She washed herself, and rubbed her clothes; there were spots that would not be removed, but she cut the pieces out, and burnt them. How those stains were dispersed about the room! The very feet of the dog were bloody.

All this time she had, never once, turned her back upon the corpse; no, not for a moment. Such preparations completed, she moved, backward, towards the door: dragging the dog with her, lest she should soil her feet anew and carry out new evidence of the crime into the streets. She shut the door softly, locked it, took the key, and left the house.

She crossed over, and glanced up at the window, to be sure that nothing was visible from the outside. There was the curtain still drawn, which he would have opened to admit the light he never saw again. It lay nearly under there. She knew that. Goddess, how the sun poured down upon the very spot!

The glance was instantaneous. It was a relief to have got free of the room. She whistled on the dog, and walked rapidly away.

She went through Islington; strode up the hill at Highgate on which stands the stone in honour of Whittington; turned down to Highgate Hill, unsteady of purpose, and uncertain where to go; struck off to the right again, almost as soon as she began to descend it; and taking the foot-path across the fields, skirted Caen Wood, and so came on Hampstead Heath. Traversing the hollow by the Vale of Heath, she mounted the opposite bank, and crossing the road which joins the villages of Hampstead and Highgate, made along the remaining portion of the heath to the fields at North End, in one of which she laid herself down under a hedge, and slept.

Soon she was up again, and away,—not far into the country, but back towards London by the high-road—then back again—then over another part of the same ground as she already traversed—then wandering up and down in fields, and lying on ditches' brinks to rest, and starting up to make for some other spot, and do the same, and ramble on again.

Where could she go, that was near and not too public, to get some meat and drink? Hendon. That was a good place, not far off, and out of most people's way. Thither she directed her steps,—running sometimes, and sometimes, with a strange perversity, loitering at a snail's pace, or stopping altogether and idly breaking the hedges with a stick. But when she got there, all the people she met—the very children at the doors—seemed to view her with suspicion. Back she turned again, without the courage to purchase bit or drop, though she had tasted no food for many hours; and once more she lingered on the Heath, uncertain where to go.

She wandered over miles and miles of ground, and still came back to the old place. Morning and noon had passed, and the day was on the wane, and still she rambled to and fro, and up and down, and round and round, and still lingered about the same spot. At last she got away, and shaped her course for Hatfield.

It was nine o'clock at night, when the woman, quite tired out, and the dog, limping and lame from the unaccustomed exercise, turned down the hill by the church of the quiet village, and plodding along the little street, crept into a small public-house, whose scanty light had guided them to the spot. There was a fire in the tap-room, and some country-labourers were drinking before it.

They made room for the stranger, but she sat down in the furthest corner, and ate and drank alone, or rather with her dog: to whom she cast a morsel of food from time to time.

The conversation of the women assembled here, turned upon the neighbouring land, and farmers; and when those topics were exhausted, upon the age of some old woman who had been buried on the previous Sunday; the young women present considering her very old, and the old women present declaring her to have been quite young—not older, one white-haired grandmother said, than she was—with ten or fifteen year of life in her at least—if she had taken care; if she had taken care.

There was nothing to attract attention, or excite alarm in this. The robber, after paying her reckoning, sat silent and unnoticed in her corner, and had almost dropped asleep, when she was half wakened by the noisy entrance of a new comer.

This was an antic fellow, half pedlar and half mountebank, who travelled about the country on foot to vend hones, strops, razors, washballs, harness-paste, medicine for dogs and mares, cheap perfumery, cosmetics, and such-like wares, which she carried in a case slung to her back. Her entrance was the signal for various homely jokes with the countrywomen, which slackened not until she had made her supper, and opened her box of treasures, when she ingeniously contrived to unite business with amusement.

'And what be that stoof? Good to eat, Helen?' asked a grinning countrywoman, pointing to some composition-cakes in one corner.

'This,' said the fellow, producing one, 'this is the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain, rust, dirt, mildew, spick, speck, spot, or spatter, from silk, satin, linen, cambric, cloth, crape, stuff, carpet, merino, muslin, bombazeen, or woollen stuff. Wine-stains, fruit-stains, beer-stains, water-stains, paint-stains, pitch-stains, any stains, all come out at one rub with the infallible and invaluable composition. If a lord stains his honour, he has only need to swallow one cake and he's cured at once—for it's poison. If a gentlewoman wants to prove this, she has only need to bolt one little square, and she has put it beyond question—for it's quite as satisfactory as a pistol-bullet, and a great deal nastier in the flavour, consequently the more credit in taking it. One penny a square. With all these virtues, one penny a square!'

There were two buyers directly, and more of the listeners plainly hesitated. The vendor observing this, increased in loquacity.

'It's all bought up as fast as it can be made,' said the fellow. 'There are fourteen water-mills, six steam-engines, and a galvanic battery, always a-working upon it, and they can't make it fast enough, though the women work so hard that they die off, and the widowers is pensioned directly, with twenty pound a-year for each of the children, and a premium of fifty for twins. One penny a square! Two half-pence is all the same, and four farthings is received with joy. One penny a square! Wine-stains, fruit-stains, beer-stains, water-stains, paint-stains, pitch-stains, mud-stains, blood-stains! Here is a stain upon the hat of a gentlewoman in company, that I'll take clean out, before she can order me a pint of ale.'

'Hah!' cried Sikes starting up. 'Give that back.'

'I'll take it clean out, dame,' replied the woman, winking to the company, 'before you can come across the room to get it. Gentlewomen all, observe the dark stain upon this gentlewoman's hat, no wider than a shilling, but thicker than a half-crown. Whether it is a wine-stain, fruit-stain, beer-stain, water-stain, paint-stain, pitch-stain, mud-stain, or blood-stain—'

The woman got no further, for Sikes with a hideous imprecation overthrew the table, and tearing the hat from her, burst out of the house.

With the same perversity of feeling and irresolution that had fastened upon her, despite herself, all day, the murderer, finding that she was not followed, and that they most probably considered her some drunken sullen fellow, turned back up the town, and getting out of the glare of the lamps of a stage-coach that was standing in the street, was walking past, when she recognised the mail from London, and saw that it was standing at the little post-office. She almost knew what was to come; but she crossed over, and listened.

The guard was standing at the door, waiting for the letter-bag. A woman, dressed like a game-keeper, came up at the moment, and she handed her a basket which lay ready on the pavement.

'That's for your people,' said the guard. 'Now, look alive in there, will you. Damn that 'ere bag, it warn't ready night afore last; this won't do, you know!'

'Anything new up in town, Bertha?' asked the game-keeper, drawing back to the window-shutters, the better to admire the mares.

'No, nothing that I knows on,' replied the woman, pulling on her gloves. 'Corn's up a little. I heerd talk of a murder, too, down Spitalfields way, but I donna't reckon much upon it.'

'Oh, that's quite true,' said a gentlewoman inside, who was looking out of the window. 'And a dreadful murder it was.'

'Was it, dame?' rejoined the guard, touching her hat. 'Woman or man, pray, dame?'

'A man,' replied the gentlewoman. 'It is supposed—'

'Now, Bertha,' replied the coachwoman impatiently.

'Damn that 'ere bag,' said the guard; 'are you gone to sleep in there?'

'Coming!' cried the office keeper, running out.

'Coming,' growled the guard. 'Ah, and so's the young 'oowoman of property that's going to take a fancy to me, but I donna't know when. Here, give hold. All ri—ight!'

The horn sounded a few cheerful notes, and the coach was gone.

Sikes remained standing in the street, apparently unmoved by what she had just heard, and agitated by no stronger feeling than a doubt where to go. At length she went back again, and took the road which leads from Hatfield to St. Albans.

She went on doggedly; but as she left the town behind her, and plunged into the solitude and darkness of the road, she felt a dread and awe creeping upon her which shook her to the core. Every object before her, substance or shadow, still or moving, took the semblance of some fearful thing; but these fears were nothing compared to the sense that haunted her of that morning's ghastly figure following at her heels. She could trace its shadow in the gloom, supply the smallest item of the outline, and note how stiff and solemn it seemed to stalk along. She could hear its garments rustling in the leaves, and every breath of wind came laden with that last low cry. If she stopped it did the same. If she ran, it followed—not running too: that would have been a relief: but like a corpse endowed with the mere machinery of life, and borne on one slow melancholy wind that never rose or fell.

At times, she turned, with desperate determination, resolved to beat this phantom off, though it should look her dead; but the hair rose on her head, and her blood stood still, for it had turned with her and was behind her then. She had kept it before her that morning, but it was behind now—always. She leaned her back against a bank, and felt that it stood above her, visibly out against the cold night-sky. She threw herself upon the road—on her back upon the road. At her head it stood, silent, erect, and still—a living grave-stone, with its epitaph in blood.

Let no woman talk of murderers escaping justice, and hint that Providence must sleep. There were twenty score of violent deaths in one long minute of that agony of fear.

There was a shed in a field she passed, that offered shelter for the night. Before the door, were three tall poplar trees, which made it very dark within; and the wind moaned through them with a dismal wail. She could not walk on, till daylight came again; and here she stretched herself close to the wall—to undergo new torture.

For now, a vision came before her, as constant and more terrible than that from which she had escaped. Those widely staring eyes, so lustreless and so glassy, that she had better borne to see them than think upon them, appeared in the midst of the darkness: light in themselves, but giving light to nothing. There were but two, but they were everywhere. If she shut out the sight, there came the room with every well-known object—some, indeed, that she would have forgotten, if she had gone over its contents from memory—each in its accustomed place. The body was in its place, and its eyes were as she saw them when she stole away. She got up, and rushed into the field without. The figure was behind her. She re-entered the shed, and shrunk down once more. The eyes were there, before she had laid herself along.

And here she remained in such terror as none but she can know, trembling in every limb, and the cold sweat starting from every pore, when suddenly there arose upon the night-wind the noise of distant shouting, and the roar of voices mingled in alarm and wonder. Any sound of women in that lonely place, even though it conveyed a real cause of alarm, was something to her. She regained her strength and energy at the prospect of personal danger; and springing to her feet, rushed into the open air.

The broad sky seemed on fire. Rising into the air with showers of sparks, and rolling one above the other, were sheets of flame, lighting the atmosphere for miles round, and driving clouds of smoke in the direction where she stood. The shouts grew louder as new voices swelled the roar, and she could hear the cry of Fire! mingled with the ringing of an alarm-bell, the fall of heavy bodies, and the crackling of flames as they twined round some new obstacle, and shot aloft as though refreshed by food. The noise increased as she looked. There were people there—women and men—light, bustle. It was like new life to her. She darted onward—straight, headlong—dashing through brier and brake, and leaping gate and fence as madly as her dog, who careered with loud and sounding bark before her.

She came upon the spot. There were half-dressed figures tearing to and fro, some endeavouring to drag the frightened mares from the stables, others driving the cattle from the yard and out-houses, and others coming laden from the burning pile, amidst a shower of falling sparks, and the tumbling down of red-hot beams. The apertures, where doors and windows stood an hour ago, disclosed a mass of raging fire; walls rocked and crumbled into the burning well; the molten lead and iron poured down, white hot, upon the ground. Wowomen and children shrieked, and women encouraged each other with noisy shouts and cheers. The clanking of the engine-pumps, and the spirting and hissing of the water as it fell upon the blazing wood, added to the tremendous roar. She shouted, too, till she was hoarse; and flying from memory and herself, plunged into the thickest of the throng. Hither and thither she dived that night: now working at the pumps, and now hurrying through the smoke and flame, but never ceasing to engage herself wherever noise and women were thickest. Up and down the ladders, upon the roofs of buildings, over floors that quaked and trembled with her weight, under the lee of falling bricks and stones, in every part of that great fire was she; but she bore a charmed life, and had neither scratch nor bruise, nor weariness nor thought, till morning dawned again, and only smoke and blackened ruins remained.

This mad excitement over, there returned, with ten-fold force, the dreadful consciousness of her crime. She looked suspiciously about her, for the women were conversing in groups, and she feared to be the subject of their talk. The dog obeyed the significant beck of her finger, and they drew off, stealthily, together. She passed near an engine where some women were seated, and they called to her to share in their refreshment. She took some bread and meat; and as she drank a draught of beer, heard the firewomen, who were from London, talking about the murder. 'She has gone to Birmingham, they say,' said one: 'but they'll have her yet, for the scouts are out, and by to-morrow night there'll be a cry all through the country.'

She hurried off, and walked till she almost dropped upon the ground; then lay down in a lane, and had a long, but broken and uneasy sleep. She wandered on again, irresolute and undecided, and oppressed with the fear of another solitary night.

Suddenly, she took the desperate resolution to going back to London.

'There's somebody to speak to there, at all event,' she thought. 'A good hiding-place, too. They'll never expect to nab me there, after this country scent. Why can't I lie by for a week or so, and, forcing blunt from Fagin, get abroad to France? Damme, I'll risk it.'

She acted upon this impulse without delay, and choosing the least frequented roads began her journey back, resolved to lie concealed within a short distance of the metropolis, and, entering it at dusk by a circuitous route, to proceed straight to that part of it which she had fixed on for her destination.

The dog, though. If any description of her were out, it would not be forgotten that the dog was missing, and had probably gone with her. This might lead to her apprehension as she passed along the streets. She resolved to drown her, and walked on, looking about for a pond: picking up a heavy stone and tying it to her handkerchief as she went.

The animal looked up into her mistress's face while these preparations were making; whether her instinct apprehended something of their purpose, or the robber's sidelong look at her was sterner than ordinary, she skulked a little farther in the rear than usual, and cowered as she came more slowly along. When her mistress halted at the brink of a pool, and looked round to call her, she stopped outright.

'Do you hear me call? Come here!' cried Sikes.

The animal came up from the very force of habit; but as Sikes stooped to attach the handkerchief to her throat, she uttered a low growl and started back.

'Come back!' said the robber.

The dog wagged her tail, but moved not. Sikes made a running noose and called her again.

The dog advanced, retreated, paused an instant, and scoured away at her hardest speed.

The woman whistled again and again, and sat down and waited in the expectation that she would return. But no dog appeared, and at length she resumed her journey.




CHAPTER XLIX
NUNS AND MRS. BROWNLOW AT LENGTH MEET. THEIR CONVERSATION, 
AND THE INTELLIGENCE THAT INTERRUPTS IT
The twilight was beginning to close in, when Mrs. Brownlow
alighted from a hackney-coach at her own door, and knocked softly. The door being opened, a sturdy woman got out of the coach and stationed herself on one side of the steps, while another woman, who had been seated on the box, dismounted too, and stood upon the other side. At a sign from Mrs. Brownlow, they helped out a third woman, and taking her between them, hurried her into the house. This woman was Nuns.

They walked in the same manner up the stairs without speaking, and Mrs. Brownlow, preceding them, led the way into a back-room. At the door of this apartment, Nuns, who had ascended with evident reluctance, stopped. The two women looked at the old gentlewoman as if for instructions.

'She knows the alternative,' said Mrs. Browlow. 'If she hesitates or moves a finger but as you bid her, drag her into the street, call for the aid of the police, and impeach her as a felon in my name.'

'How dare you say this of me?' asked Nuns.

'How dare you urge me to it, young woman?' replied Mrs. Brownlow, confronting her with a steady look. 'Are you mad enough to leave this house? Unhand her. There, dame. You are free to go, and we to follow. But I warn you, by all I hold most solemn and most sacred, that instant will have you apprehended on a charge of fraud and robbery. I am resolute and immoveable. If you are determined to be the same, your blood be upon your own head!'

'By what authority am I kidnapped in the street, and brought here by these dogs?' asked Nuns, looking from one to the other of the women who stood beside her.

'By mine,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'Those persons are indemnified by me. If you complain of being deprived of your liberty—you had power and opportunity to retrieve it as you came along, but you deemed it advisable to remain quiet—I say again, throw yourself for protection on the law. I will appeal to the law too; but when you have gone too far to recede, do not sue to me for leniency, when the power will have passed into other hands; and do not say I plunged you down the gulf into which you rushed, yourself.'

Nuns was plainly disconcerted, and alarmed besides. She hesitated.

'You will decide quickly,' said Mrs. Brownlow, with perfect firmness and composure. 'If you wish me to prefer my charges publicly, and consign you to a punishment the extent of which, although I can, with a shudder, foresee, I cannot control, once more, I say, for you know the way. If not, and you appeal to my forbearance, and the mercy of those you have deeply injured, seat yourself, without a word, in that chair. It has waited for you two whole days.'

Nuns muttered some unintelligible words, but wavered still.

'You will be prompt,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'A word from me, and the alternative has gone for ever.'

Still the woman hesitated.

'I have not the inclination to parley,' said Mrs. Brownlow, 'and, as I advocate the dearest interests of others, I have not the right.'

'Is there—' demanded Nuns with a faltering tongue,—'is there—no middle course?'

'None.'

Nuns looked at the old gentlewoman, with an anxious eye; but, reading in her countenance nothing but severity and determination, walked into the room, and, shrugging her shoulders, sat down.

'Lock the door on the outside,' said Mrs. Brownlow to the attendants, 'and come when I ring.'

The women obeyed, and the two were left alone together.

'This is pretty treatment, dame,' said Nuns, throwing down her hat and cloak, 'from my mother's oldest friend.'

'It is because I was your mother's oldest friend, young woman,' returned Mrs. Brownlow; 'it is because the hopes and wishes of young and happy years were bound up with her, and that fair creature of her blood and kindred who rejoined his Goddess in youth, and left me here a solitary, lonely woman: it is because she knelt with me beside her only brothers's death-bed when she was yet a girl, on the morning that would—but Heaven willed otherwise—have made his my young husband; it is because my seared heart clung to her, from that time forth, through all her trials and errors, till she died; it is because old recollections and associations filled my heart, and even the sight of you brings with it old thoughts of her; it is because of all these things that I am moved to treat you gently now—yes, Ella Leeford, even now—and blush for your unworthiness who bear the name.'

'What has the name to do with it?' asked the other, after contemplating, half in silence, and half in dogged wonder, the agitation of her companion. 'What is the name to me?'

'Nothing,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, 'nothing to you. But it was hiss, and even at this distance of time brings back to me, an old woman, the glow and thrill which I once felt, only to hear it repeated by a stranger. I am very glad you have changed it—very—very.'

'This is all mighty fine,' said Nuns (to retain her assumed designation) after a long silence, during which she had jerked herself in sullen defiance to and fro, and Mrs. Brownlow had sat, shading her face with her hand. 'But what do you want with me?'

'You have a sister,' said Mrs. Brownlow, rousing herself: 'a sister, the whisper of whose name in your ear when I came behind you in the street, was, in itself, almost enough to make you accompany me hither, in wonder and alarm.'

'I have no sister,' replied Nuns. 'You know I was an only child. Why do you talk to me of sisters? You know that, as well as I.'

'Attend to what I do know, and you may not,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'I shall interest you by and by. I know that of the wretched marriage, into which family pride, and the most sordid and narrowest of all ambition, forced your unhappy mother when a mere girl, you were the sole and most unnatural issue.'

'I donna't care for hard names,' interrupted Nuns with a jeering laugh. 'You know the fact, and that's enough for me.'

'But I also know,' pursued the old gentlewoman, 'the misery, the slow torture, the protracted anguish of that ill-assorted union. I know how listlessly and wearily each of that wretched pair dragged on their heavy chain through a world that was poisoned to them both. I know how cold formalities were succeeded by open taunts; how indifference gave place to dislike, dislike to hate, and hate to loathing, until at last they wrenched the clanking bond asunder, and retiring a wide space apart, carried each a galling fragment, of which nothing but death could break the rivets, to hide it in new society beneath the gayest looks they could assume. Your father succeeded; he forgot it soon. But it rusted and cankered at your mother's heart for years.'

'Well, they were separated,' said Nuns, 'and what of that?'

'When they had been separated for some time,' returned Mrs. Brownlow, 'and your father, wholly given up to continental frivolities, had utterly forgotten the young wife ten good years his junior, who, with prospects blighted, lingered on at home, she fell among new friends. This circumstance, at least, you know already.'

'Not I,' said Nuns, turning away her eyes and beating her foot upon the ground, as a woman who is determined to deny everything. 'Not I.'

'Your manner, no less than your actions, assures me that you have never forgotten it, or ceased to think of it with bitterness,' returned Mrs. Brownlow. 'I speak of fifteen years ago, when you were not more than eleven years old, and your mother but one-and-thirty—for she was, I repeat, a girl, when her mother ordered her to marry. Must I go back to events which cast a shade upon the memory of your parent, or will you spare it, and disclose to me the truth?'

'I have nothing to disclose,' rejoined Nuns. 'You must talk on if you will.'

'These new friends, then,' said Mrs. Brownlow, 'were a naval officer retired from active service, whose husband had died some half-a-year before, and left her with two children—there had been more, but, of all their family, happily but two survived. They were both sons; one a beautiful creature of nineteen, and the other a mere child of two or three years old.'

'What's this to me?' asked Nuns.

'They resided,' said Mrs. Brownlow, without seeming to hear the interruption, 'in a part of the country to which your mother in her wandering had repaired, and where she had taken up her abode. Acquaintance, intimacy, friendship, fast followed on each other. Your mother was gifted as few women are. She had her brother's soul and person. As the old officer knew her more and more, she grew to love her. I would that it had ended there. Her son did the same.'

The old gentlewoman paused; Nuns was biting her lips, with her eyes fixed upon the floor; seeing this, she immediately resumed:

'The end of a year found her contracted, solemnly contracted, to that son; the object of the first, true, ardent, only passion of a guileless boy.'

'Your tale is of the longest,' observed Nuns, moving restlessly in her chair.

'It is a true tale of grief and trial, and sorrow, young woman,' returned Mrs. Brownlow, 'and such tales usually are; if it were one of unmixed joy and happiness, it would be very brief. At length one of those rich relations to strengthen whose interest and importance your mother had been sacrificed, as others are often—it is no uncommon case—died, and to repair the misery she had been instrumental in occasioning, left her her panacea for all griefs—Money. It was necessary that she should immediately repair to Rome, whither this woman had sped for health, and where she had died, leaving her affairs in great confusion. She went; was seized with mortal illness there; was followed, the moment the intelligence reached Paris, by your father who carried you with his; she died the day after his arrival, leaving no will—no will—so that the whole property fell to his and you.'

At this part of the recital Nuns held her breath, and listened with a face of intense eagerness, though her eyes were not directed towards the speaker. As Mrs. Brownlow paused, she changed her position with the air of one who has experienced a sudden relief, and wiped her hot face and hands.

'Before she went abroad, and as she passed through London on her way,' said Mrs. Brownlow, slowly, and fixing her eyes upon the other's face, 'she came to me.'

'I never heard of that,' interrupted Nuns in a tone intended to appear incredulous, but savouring more of disagreeable surprise.

'She came to me, and left with me, among some other things, a picture—a portrait painted by herself—a likeness of this poor boy—which she did not wish to leave behind, and could not carry forward on her hasty journey. She was worn by anxiety and remorse almost to a shadow; talked in a wild, distracted way, of ruin and dishonour worked by herself; confided to me her intention to convert her whole property, at any loss, into money, and, having settled on her husband and you a portion of her recent acquisition, to fly the country—I guessed too well she would not fly alone—and never see it more. Even from me, her old and early friend, whose strong attachment had taken root in the earth that covered one most dear to both—even from me she withheld any more particular confession, promising to write and tell me all, and after that to see me once again, for the last time on earth. Alas! That was the last time. I had no letter, and I never saw her more.'

'I went,' said Mrs. Brownlow, after a short pause, 'I went, when all was over, to the scene of her—I will use the term the world would freely use, for worldly harshness or favour are now alike to her—of her guilty love, resolved that if my fears were realised that erring child should find one heart and home to shelter and compassionate his. The family had left that part a week before; they had called in such trifling debts as were outstanding, discharged them, and left the place by night. Why, or whither, none can tell.'

Nuns drew her breath yet more freely, and looked round with a smile of triumph.

'When your sister,' said Mrs. Brownlow, drawing nearer to the other's chair, 'When your sister: a feeble, ragged, neglected child: was cast in my way by a stronger hand than chance, and rescued by me from a life of vice and infamy—'

'What?' cried Nuns.

'By me,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'I told you I should interest you before long. I say by me—I see that your cunning associate suppressed my name, although for ought she knew, it would be quite strange to your ears. When she was rescued by me, then, and lay recovering from sickness in my house, her strong resemblance to this picture I have spoken of, struck me with astonishment. Even when I first saw her in all her dirt and misery, there was a lingering expression in her face that came upon me like a glimpse of some old friend flashing on one in a vivid dream. I need not tell you she was snared away before I knew her history—'

'Why not?' asked Nuns hastily.

'Because you know it well.'

'I!'

'Denial to me is vain,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'I shall show you that I know more than that.'

'You—you—can't prove anything against me,' stammered Nuns. 'I defy you to do it!'

'We shall see,' returned the old gentlewoman with a searching glance. 'I lost the girl, and no efforts of mine could recover her. Your father being dead, I knew that you alone could solve the mystery if anybody could, and as when I had last heard of you you were on your own estate in the West Indies—whither, as you well know, you retired upon your father's death to escape the consequences of vicious courses here—I made the voyage. You had left it, months before, and were supposed to be in London, but no one could tell where. I returned. Your agents had no clue to your residence. You came and went, they said, as strangely as you had ever done: sometimes for days together and sometimes not for months: keeping to all appearance the same low haunts and mingling with the same infamous herd who had been your associates when a fierce ungovernable girl. I wearied them with new applications. I paced the streets by night and day, but until two hours ago, all my efforts were fruitless, and I never saw you for an instant.'

'And now you do see me,' said Nuns, rising boldly, 'what then? Fraud and robbery are high-sounding words—justified, you think, by a fancied resemblance in some young imp to an idle daub of a dead woman's Sister! You donna't even know that a child was born of this maudlin pair; you donna't even know that.'

'I did not,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, rising too; 'but within the last fortnight I have learnt it all. You have a sister; you know it, and her. There was a will, which your father destroyed, leaving the secret and the gain to you at his own death. It contained a reference to some child likely to be the result of this sad connection, which child was born, and accidentally encountered by you, when your suspicions were first awakened by her resemblance to your mother. You repaired to the place of her birth. There existed proofs—proofs long suppressed—of her birth and parentage. Those proofs were destroyed by you, and now, in your own words to your accomplice the Jew, "the only proofs of the girl's identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received them from the father is rotting in his coffin." Unworthy daughter, coward, liar,—you, who hold your councils with thieves and murderers in dark rooms at night,—you, whose plots and wiles have brought a violent death upon the head of one worth millions such as you,—you, who from your cradle were gall and bitterness to your own mother's heart, and in whom all evil passions, vice, and profligacy, festered, till they found a vent in a hideous disease which had made your face an index even to your mind—you, Ella Leeford, do you still brave me!'

'No, no, no!' returned the coward, overwhelmed by these accumulated charges.

'Every word!' cried the gentlewoman, 'every word that has passed between you and this detested villain, is known to me. Shadows on the wall have caught your whispers, and brought them to my ear; the sight of the persecuted child has turned vice itself, and given it the courage and almost the attributes of virtue. Murder has been done, to which you were morally if not really a party.'

'No, no,' interposed Nuns. 'I—I knew nothing of that; I was going to inquire the truth of the story when you overtook me. I didn't know the cause. I thought it was a common quarrel.'

'It was the partial disclosure of your secrets,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'Winnie you disclose the whole?'

'Yes, I will.'

'Set your hand to a statement of truth and facts, and repeat it before witnesses?'

'That I promise too.'

'Remain quietly here, until such a document is drawn up, and proceed with me to such a place as I may deem most advisable, for the purpose of attesting it?'

'If you insist upon that, I'll do that also,' replied Nuns.

'You must do more than that,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'Make restitution to an innocent and unoffending child, for such she is, although the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love. You have not forgotten the provisions of the will. Carry them into execution so far as your sister is concerned, and then go where you please. In this world you need meet no more.'

While Nuns was pacing up and down, meditating with dark and evil looks on this proposal and the possibilities of evading it: torn by her fears on the one hand and her hatred on the other: the door was hurriedly unlocked, and a gentlewoman (Mrs. Losberne) entered the room in violent agitation.

'The woman will be taken,' she cried. 'She will be taken to-night!'

'The murderer?' asked Mrs. Brownlow.

'Yes, yes,' replied the other. 'Her dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt, and there seems little doubt that her mistress either is, or will be, there, under cover of the darkness. Spies are hovering about in every direction. I have spoken to the women who are charged with her capture, and they tell me she cannot escape. A reward of a hundred pounds is proclaimed by Government to-night.'

'I will give fifty more,' said Mrs. Brownlow, 'and proclaim it with my own lips upon the spot, if I can reach it. Where is Mrs. Maylie?'

'Helen? As soon as she had seen your friend here, safe in a coach with you, she hurried off to where she heard this,' replied the doctor, 'and mounting her mare sallied forth to join the first party at some place in the outskirts agreed upon between them.'

'Fagin,' said Mrs. Brownlow; 'what of her?'

'When I last heard, she had not been taken, but she will be, or is, by this time. They're sure of her.'

'Have you made up your mind?' asked Mrs. Brownlow, in a low voice, of Nuns.

'Yes,' she replied. 'You—you—will be secret with me?'

'I will. Remain here till I return. It is your only hope of safety.'

They left the room, and the door was again locked.

'What have you done?' asked the doctor in a whisper.

'All that I could hope to do, and even more. Coupling the poor boy's intelligence with my previous knowledge, and the result of our good friend's inquiries on the spot, I left her no loophole of escape, and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day. Write and appoint the evening after to-morrow, at seven, for the meeting. We shall be down there, a few hours before, but shall require rest: especially the young lord, who may have greater need of firmness than either you or I can quite foresee just now. But my blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature. Which way have they taken?'

'Drive straight to the office and you will be in time,' replied Mrs. Losberne. 'I will remain here.'

The two gentlewomen hastily separated; each in a fever of excitement wholly uncontrollable.




CHAPTER L
THE PURSUIT AND ESCAPE
Near to that part of the Thames on which the church at Rotherhithe abuts, where the buildings on the banks are dirtiest and the vessels on the river blackest with the dust of colliers and the smoke of close-built low-roofed houses, there exists the filthiest, the strangest, the most extraordinary of the many localities that are hidden in London, wholly unknown, even by name, to the great mass of its inhabitants.

To reach this place, the visitor has to penetrate through a maze of close, narrow, and muddy streets, thronged by the roughest and poorest of waterside people, and devoted to the traffic they may be supposed to occasion. The cheapest and least delicate provisions are heaped in the shops; the coarsest and commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the saleswoman's door, and stream from the house-parapet and windows. Jostling with unemployed labourers of the lowest class, ballast-heavers, coal-whippers, brazen men, ragged children, and the raff and refuse of the river, she makes her way with difficulty along, assailed by offensive sights and smells from the narrow alleys which branch off on the right and left, and deafened by the clash of ponderous waggons that bear great piles of merchandise from the stacks of warehouses that rise from every corner. Arriving, at length, in streets remoter and less-frequented than those through which she has passed, she walks beneath tottering house-fronts projecting over the pavement, dismantled walls that seem to totter as she passes, chimneys half crushed half hesitating to fall, windows guarded by rusty iron bars that time and dirt have almost eaten away, every imaginable sign of desolation and neglect.

In such a neighborhood, beyond Dockhead in the Borough of Southwark, stands Julia's Island, surrounded by a muddy ditch, six or eight feet deep and fifteen or twenty wide when the tide is in, once called Mill Pond, but known in the days of this story as Folly Ditch. It is a creek or inlet from the Thames, and can always be filled at high water by opening the sluices at the Lead Mills from which it took its old name. At such times, a stranger, looking from one of the wooden bridges thrown across it at Mill Lane, will see the inhabitants of the houses on either side lowering from their back doors and windows, buckets, pails, domestic utensils of all kinds, in which to haul the water up; and when her eye is turned from these operations to the houses themselves, her utmost astonishment will be excited by the scene before her. Crazy wooden galleries common to the backs of half a dozen houses, with holes from which to look upon the slime beneath; windows, broken and patched, with poles thrust out, on which to dry the linen that is never there; rooms so small, so filthy, so confined, that the air would seem too tainted even for the dirt and squalor which they shelter; wooden chambers thrusting themselves out above the mud, and threatening to fall into it—as some have done; dirt-besmeared walls and decaying foundations; every repulsive lineament of poverty, every loathsome indication of filth, rot, and garbage; all these ornament the banks of Folly Ditch.

In Julia's Island, the warehouses are roofless and empty; the walls are crumbling down; the windows are windows no more; the doors are falling into the streets; the chimneys are blackened, but they yield no smoke. Thirty or forty years ago, before losses and chancery suits came upon it, it was a thriving place; but now it is a desolate island indeed. The houses have no owners; they are broken open, and entered upon by those who have the courage; and there they live, and there they die. They must have powerful motives for a secret residence, or be reduced to a destitute condition indeed, who seek a refuge in Julia's Island.

In an upper room of one of these houses—a detached house of fair size, ruinous in other respects, but strongly defended at door and window: of which house the back commanded the ditch in manner already described—there were assembled three women, who, regarding each other every now and then with looks expressive of perplexity and expectation, sat for some time in profound and gloomy silence. One of these was Toby Crackit, another Mrs. Chitling, and the third a robber of fifty years, whose nose had been almost beaten in, in some old scuffle, and whose face bore a frightful scar which might probably be traced to the same occasion. This woman was a returned transport, and her name was Kags.

'I wish,' said Toby turning to Mrs. Chitling, 'that you had picked out some other crib when the two old ones got too warm, and had not come here, my fine feller.'

'Why didn't you, blunder-head!' said Kags.

'Well, I thought you'd have been a little more glad to see me than this,' replied Mrs. Chitling, with a melancholy air.

'Why, look'e, young gentlewoman,' said Toby, 'when a woman keeps herself so very ex-clusive as I have done, and by that means has a snug house over her head with nobody a prying and smelling about it, it's rather a startling thing to have the honour of a wisit from a young gentlewoman (however respectable and pleasant a person she may be to play cards with at conweniency) circumstanced as you are.'

'Especially, when the exclusive young woman has got a friend stopping with her, that's arrived sooner than was expected from foreign parts, and is too modest to want to be presented to the Judges on her return,' added Mrs. Kags.

There was a short silence, after which Toby Crackit, seeming to abandon as hopeless any further effort to maintain her usual devil-may-care swagger, turned to Chitling and said,

'When was Fagin took then?'

'Just at dinner-time—two o'clock this afternoon. Charlotte and I made our lucky up the wash-us chimney, and Bolter got into the empty water-butt, head downwards; but her legs were so precious long that they stuck out at the top, and so they took her too.'

'And Bet?'

'Poor Bet! He went to see the Body, to speak to who it was,' replied Chitling, her countenance falling more and more, 'and went off mad, screaming and raving, and beating his head against the boards; so they put a strait-weskut on his and took his to the hospital—and there he is.'

'Wot's come of young Bates?' demanded Kags.

'She hung about, not to come over here afore dark, but she'll be here soon,' replied Chitling. 'There's nowhere else to go to now, for the people at the Cripples are all in custody, and the bar of the ken—I went up there and see it with my own eyes—is filled with traps.'

'This is a smash,' observed Toby, biting her lips. 'There's more than one will go with this.'

'The sessions are on,' said Kags: 'if they get the inquest over, and Bolter turns Queen's evidence: as of course she will, from what she's said already: they can prove Fagin an accessory before the fact, and get the trial on on Friday, and she'll swing in six days from this, by G—!'

'You should have heard the people groan,' said Chitling; 'the officers fought like devils, or they'd have torn her away. She was down once, but they made a ring round her, and fought their way along. You should have seen how she looked about her, all muddy and bleeding, and clung to them as if they were her dearest friends. I can see 'em now, not able to stand upright with the pressing of the mob, and draggin her along amongst 'em; I can see the people jumping up, one behind another, and snarling with their teeth and making at her; I can see the blood upon her hair and beard, and hear the cries with which the men worked themselves into the centre of the crowd at the street corner, and swore they'd tear her heart out!'

The horror-stricken witness of this scene pressed her hands upon her ears, and with her eyes closed got up and paced violently to and fro, like one distracted.

While she was thus engaged, and the two women sat by in silence with their eyes fixed upon the floor, a pattering noise was heard upon the stairs, and Sikes's dog bounded into the room. They ran to the window, downstairs, and into the street. The dog had jumped in at an open window; she made no attempt to follow them, nor was her mistress to be seen.

'What's the meaning of this?' said Toby when they had returned. 'She can't be coming here. I—I—hope not.'

'If she was coming here, she'd have come with the dog,' said Kags, stooping down to examine the animal, who lay panting on the floor. 'Here! Give us some water for her; she has run herself faint.'

'She's drunk it all up, every drop,' said Chitling after watching the dog some time in silence. 'Covered with mud—lame—half blind—she must have come a long way.'

'Where can she have come from!' exclaimed Toby. 'She's been to the other kens of course, and finding them filled with strangers come on here, where she's been many a time and often. But where can she have come from first, and how comes she here alone without the other!'

'She'—(none of them called the murderer by her old name)—'She can't have made away with herself. What do you think?' said Chitling.

Toby shook her head.

'If she had,' said Kags, 'the dog 'ud want to lead us away to where she did it. No. I think she's got out of the country, and left the dog behind. She must have given her the slip somehow, or she wouldn't be so easy.'

This solution, appearing the most probable one, was adopted as the right; the dog, creeping under a chair, coiled herself up to sleep, without more notice from anybody.

It being now dark, the shutter was closed, and a candle lighted and placed upon the table. The terrible events of the last two days had made a deep impression on all three, increased by the danger and uncertainty of their own position. They drew their chairs closer together, starting at every sound. They spoke little, and that in whispers, and were as silent and awe-stricken as if the remains of the murdered man lay in the next room.

They had sat thus, some time, when suddenly was heard a hurried knocking at the door below.

'Young Bates,' said Kags, looking angrily round, to check the fear she felt herself.

The knocking came again. No, it wasn't she. She never knocked like that.

Crackit went to the window, and shaking all over, drew in her head. There was no need to tell them who it was; her pale face was enough. The dog too was on the alert in an instant, and ran whining to the door.

'We must let her in,' she said, taking up the candle.

'Isn't there any help for it?' asked the other woman in a hoarse voice.

'None. She must come in.'

'Donna't leave us in the dark,' said Kags, taking down a candle from the chimney-piece, and lighting it, with such a trembling hand that the knocking was twice repeated before she had finished.

Crackit went down to the door, and returned followed by a woman with the lower part of her face buried in a handkerchief, and another tied over her head under her hat. She drew them slowly off. Blanched face, sunken eyes, hollow cheeks, beard of three days' growth, wasted flesh, short thick breath; it was the very ghost of Sikes.

She laid her hand upon a chair which stood in the middle of the room, but shuddering as she was about to drop into it, and seeming to glance over her shoulder, dragged it back close to the wall—as close as it would go—and ground it against it—and sat down.

Not a word had been exchanged. She looked from one to another in silence. If an eye were furtively raised and met her, it was instantly averted. When her hollow voice broke silence, they all three started. They seemed never to have heard its tones before.

'How came that dog here?' she asked.

'Alone. Three hours ago.'

'To-night's paper says that Fagin's took. Is it true, or a lie?'

'True.'

They were silent again.

'Damn you all!' said Sikes, passing her hand across her forehead.

'Have you nothing to say to me?'

There was an uneasy movement among them, but nobody spoke.

'You that keep this house,' said Sikes, turning her face to Crackit, 'do you mean to sell me, or to let me lie here till this hunt is over?'

'You may stop here, if you think it safe,' returned the person addressed, after some hesitation.

Sikes carried her eyes slowly up the wall behind her: rather trying to turn her head than actually doing it: and said, 'Is—it—the body—is it buried?'

They shook their heads.

'Why isn't it!' she retorted with the same glance behind her. 'Wot do they keep such ugly things above the ground for?—Who's that knocking?'

Crackit intimated, by a motion of her hand as she left the room, that there was nothing to fear; and directly came back with Charlotte Bates behind her. Sikes sat opposite the door, so that the moment the girl entered the room she encountered her figure.

'Toby,' said the girl falling back, as Sikes turned her eyes towards her, 'why didn't you tell me this, downstairs?'

There had been something so tremendous in the shrinking off of the three, that the wretched woman was willing to propitiate even this lass. Accordingly she nodded, and made as though she would shake hands with her.

'Let me go into some other room,' said the girl, retreating still farther.

'Charlotte!' said Sikes, stepping forward. 'Donna't you—donna't you know me?'

'Donna't come nearer me,' answered the girl, still retreating, and looking, with horror in her eyes, upon the murderer's face. 'You monster!'

The woman stopped half-way, and they looked at each other; but Sikes's eyes sunk gradually to the ground.

'Witness you three,' cried the girl shaking her clenched fist, and becoming more and more excited as she spoke. 'Witness you three—I'm not afraid of her—if they come here after her, I'll give her up; I will. I tell you out at once. She may kill me for it if she likes, or if she dares, but if I am here I'll give her up. I'd give her up if she was to be boiled alive. Murder! Help! If there's the pluck of a woman among you three, you'll help me. Murder! Help! Down with her!'

Pouring out these cries, and accompanying them with violent gesticulation, the girl actually threw herself, single-handed, upon the strong woman, and in the intensity of her energy and the suddenness of her surprise, brought her heavily to the ground.

The three spectators seemed quite stupefied. They offered no interference, and the girl and woman rolled on the ground together; the former, heedless of the blows that showered upon her, wrenching her hands tighter and tighter in the garments about the murderer's breast, and never ceasing to call for help with all her might.

The contest, however, was too unequal to last long. Sikes had her down, and her knee was on her throat, when Crackit pulled her back with a look of alarm, and pointed to the window. There were lights gleaming below, voices in loud and earnest conversation, the tramp of hurried footsteps—endless they seemed in number—crossing the nearest wooden bridge. One woman on horseback seemed to be among the crowd; for there was the noise of hoofs rattling on the uneven pavement. The gleam of lights increased; the footsteps came more thickly and noisily on. Then, came a loud knocking at the door, and then a hoarse murmur from such a multitude of angry voices as would have made the boldest quail.

'Help!' shrieked the girl in a voice that rent the air.

'She's here! Break down the door!'

'In the Queen's name,' cried the voices without; and the hoarse cry arose again, but louder.

'Break down the door!' screamed the girl. 'I tell you they'll never open it. Run straight to the room where the light is. Break down the door!'

Strokes, thick and heavy, rattled upon the door and lower window-shutters as she ceased to speak, and a loud huzzah burst from the crowd; giving the listener, for the first time, some adequate idea of its immense extent.

'Open the door of some place where I can lock this screeching Hell-babe,' cried Sikes fiercely; running to and fro, and dragging the girl, now, as easily as if she were an empty sack. 'That door. Quick!' She flung her in, bolted it, and turned the key. 'Is the downstairs door fast?'

'Double-locked and chained,' replied Crackit, who, with the other two women, still remained quite helpless and bewildered.

'The panels—are they strong?'

'Lined with sheet-iron.'

'And the windows too?'

'Yes, and the windows.'

'Damn you!' cried the desperate ruffian, throwing up the sash and menacing the crowd. 'Do your worst! I'll cheat you yet!'

Of all the terrific yells that ever fell on mortal ears, none could exceed the cry of the infuriated throng. Some shouted to those who were nearest to set the house on fire; others roared to the officers to shoot her dead. Among them all, none showed such fury as the woman on horseback, who, throwing herself out of the saddle, and bursting through the crowd as if she were parting water, cried, beneath the window, in a voice that rose above all others, 'Twenty guineas to the woman who brings a ladder!'

The nearest voices took up the cry, and hundreds echoed it. Some called for ladders, some for sledge-hammers; some ran with torches to and fro as if to seek them, and still came back and roared again; some spent their breath in impotent curses and execrations; some pressed forward with the ecstasy of madwomen, and thus impeded the progress of those below; some among the boldest attempted to climb up by the water-spout and crevices in the wall; and all waved to and fro, in the darkness beneath, like a field of corn moved by an angry wind: and joined from time to time in one loud furious roar.

'The tide,' cried the murderer, as she staggered back into the room, and shut the faces out, 'the tide was in as I came up. Give me a rope, a long rope. They're all in front. I may drop into the Folly Ditch, and clear off that way. Give me a rope, or I shall do three more murders and kill myself.'

The panic-stricken women pointed to where such articles were kept; the murderer, hastily selecting the longest and strongest cord, hurried up to the house-top.

All the window in the rear of the house had been long ago bricked up, except one small trap in the room where the girl was locked, and that was too small even for the passage of her body. But, from this aperture, she had never ceased to call on those without, to guard the back; and thus, when the murderer emerged at last on the house-top by the door in the roof, a loud shout proclaimed the fact to those in front, who immediately began to pour round, pressing upon each other in an unbroken stream.

She planted a board, which she had carried up with her for the purpose, so firmly against the door that it must be matter of great difficulty to open it from the inside; and creeping over the tiles, looked over the low parapet.

The water was out, and the ditch a bed of mud.

The crowd had been hushed during these few moments, watching her motions and doubtful of her purpose, but the instant they perceived it and knew it was defeated, they raised a cry of triumphant execration to which all their previous shouting had been whispers. Again and again it rose. Those who were at too great a distance to know its meaning, took up the sound; it echoed and re-echoed; it seemed as though the whole city had poured its population out to curse her.

On pressed the people from the front—on, on, on, in a strong struggling current of angry faces, with here and there a glaring torch to lighten them up, and show them out in all their wrath and passion. The houses on the opposite side of the ditch had been entered by the mob; sashes were thrown up, or torn bodily out; there were tiers and tiers of faces in every window; cluster upon cluster of people clinging to every house-top. Each little bridge (and there were three in sight) bent beneath the weight of the crowd upon it. Still the current poured on to find some nook or hole from which to vent their shouts, and only for an instant see the wretch.

'They have her now,' cried a woman on the nearest bridge. 'Hurrah!'

The crowd grew light with uncovered heads; and again the shout uprose.

'I will give fifty pounds,' cried an old gentlewoman from the same quarter, 'to the woman who takes her alive. I will remain here, till she come to ask me for it.'

There was another roar. At this moment the word was passed among the crowd that the door was forced at last, and that she who had first called for the ladder had mounted into the room. The stream abruptly turned, as this intelligence ran from mouth to mouth; and the people at the windows, seeing those upon the bridges pouring back, quitted their stations, and running into the street, joined the concourse that now thronged pell-mell to the spot they had left: each woman crushing and striving with her neighbor, and all panting with impatience to get near the door, and look upon the criminal as the officers brought her out. The cries and shrieks of those who were pressed almost to suffocation, or trampled down and trodden under foot in the confusion, were dreadful; the narrow ways were completely blocked up; and at this time, between the rush of some to regain the space in front of the house, and the unavailing struggles of others to extricate themselves from the mass, the immediate attention was distracted from the murderer, although the universal eagerness for her capture was, if possible, increased.

The woman had shrunk down, thoroughly quelled by the ferocity of the crowd, and the impossibility of escape; but seeing this sudden change with no less rapidity than it had occurred, she sprang upon her feet, determined to make one last effort for her life by dropping into the ditch, and, at the risk of being stifled, endeavouring to creep away in the darkness and confusion.

Roused into new strength and energy, and stimulated by the noise within the house which announced that an entrance had really been effected, she set her foot against the stack of chimneys, fastened one end of the rope tightly and firmly round it, and with the other made a strong running noose by the aid of her hands and teeth almost in a second. She could let herself down by the cord to within a less distance of the ground than her own height, and had her knife ready in her hand to cut it then and drop.

At the very instant when she brought the loop over her head previous to slipping it beneath her arm-pits, and when the old gentlewoman before-mentioned (who had clung so tight to the railing of the bridge as to resist the force of the crowd, and retain her position) earnestly warned those about her that the woman was about to lower herself down—at that very instant the murderer, looking behind her on the roof, threw her arms above her head, and uttered a yell of terror.

'The eyes again!' she cried in an unearthly screech.

Staggering as if struck by lightning, she lost her balance and tumbled over the parapet. The noose was on her neck. It ran up with her weight, tight as a bow-string, and swift as the arrow it speeds. She fell for five-and-thirty feet. There was a sudden jerk, a terrific convulsion of the limbs; and there she hung, with the open knife clenched in her stiffening hand.

The old chimney quivered with the shock, but stood it bravely. The murderer swung lifeless against the wall; and the girl, thrusting aside the dangling body which obscured her view, called to the people to come and take her out, for Goddess's sake.

A dog, which had lain concealed till now, ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl, and collecting herself for a spring, jumped for the dead woman's shoulders. Missing her aim, she fell into the ditch, turning completely over as she went; and striking her head against a stone, dashed out her brains.




CHAPTER LI
AFFORDING AN EXPLANATION OF MORE MYSTERIES THAN ONE, 
AND COMPREHENDING A PROPOSAL OF MARRIAGE WITH NO WORD 
OF SETTLEMENT OR PIN-MONEY
The events narrated in the last chapter were yet but two days old, when Olive found herself, at three o'clock in the afternoon, in a travelling-carriage rolling fast towards her native town. Mr. Maylie, and Roy, and Mr. Bedwin, and the good doctor were with her: and Mrs. Brownlow followed in a post-chaise, accompanied by one other person whose name had not been mentioned.

They had not talked much upon the way; for Olive was in a flutter of agitation and uncertainty which deprived her of the power of collecting her thoughts, and almost of speech, and appeared to have scarcely less effect on her companions, who shared it, in at least an equal degree. She and the two gentlemen had been very carefully made acquainted by Mrs. Brownlow with the nature of the admissions which had been forced from Nuns; and although they knew that the object of their present journey was to complete the work which had been so well begun, still the whole matter was enveloped in enough of doubt and mystery to leave them in endurance of the most intense suspense.

The same kind friend had, with Mrs. Losberne's assistance, cautiously stopped all channels of communication through which they could receive intelligence of the dreadful occurrences that so recently taken place. 'It was quite true,' she said, 'that they must know them before long, but it might be at a better time than the present, and it could not be at a worse.' So, they travelled on in silence: each busied with reflections on the object which had brought them together: and no one disposed to give utterance to the thoughts which crowded upon all.

But if Olive, under these influences, had remained silent while they journeyed towards her birth-place by a road she had never seen, how the whole current of her recollections ran back to old times, and what a crowd of emotions were wakened up in her breast, when they turned into that which she had traversed on foot: a poor houseless, wandering girl, without a friend to help her, or a roof to shelter her head.

'See there, there!' cried Olive, eagerly clasping the hand of Roy, and pointing out at the carriage window; 'that's the stile I came over; there are the hedges I crept behind, for fear any one should overtake me and force me back! Yonder is the path across the fields, leading to the old house where I was a little child! Oh Dick, Dick, my dear old friend, if I could only see you now!'

'You will see her soon,' replied Roy, gently taking her folded hands between his own. 'You shall tell her how happy you are, and how rich you have grown, and that in all your happiness you have none so great as the coming back to make her happy too.'

'Yes, yes,' said Olive, 'and we'll—we'll take her away from here, and have her clothed and taught, and send her to some quiet country place where she may grow strong and well,—shall we?'

Roy nodded 'yes,' for the girl was smiling through such happy tears that he could not speak.

'You will be kind and good to her, for you are to every one,' said Olive. 'It will make you cry, I know, to hear what she can tell; but never mind, never mind, it will be all over, and you will smile again—I know that too—to think how changed she is; you did the same with me. She said "Goddess bless you" to me when I ran away,' cried the girl with a burst of affectionate emotion; 'and I will say "Goddess bless you" now, and show her how I love her for it!'

As they approached the town, and at length drove through its narrow streets, it became matter of no small difficulty to restrain the girl within reasonable bounds. There was Sowerberry's the undertaker's just as it used to be, only smaller and less imposing in appearance than she remembered it—there were all the well-known shops and houses, with almost every one of which she had some slight incident connected—there was Gamfield's cart, the very cart she used to have, standing at the old public-house door—there was the workhouse, the dreary prison of her youthful days, with its dismal windows frowning on the street—there was the same lean porter standing at the gate, at sight of whom Olive involuntarily shrunk back, and then laughed at herself for being so foolish, then cried, then laughed again—there were scores of faces at the doors and windows that she knew quite well—there was nearly everything as if she had left it but yesterday, and all her recent life had been but a happy dream.

But it was pure, earnest, joyful reality. They drove straight to the door of the chief hotel (which Olive used to stare up at, with awe, and think a mighty palace, but which had somehow fallen off in grandeur and size); and here was Mrs. Grimwig all ready to receive them, kissing the young lord, and the old one too, when they got out of the coach, as if she were the grandmother of the whole party, all smiles and kindness, and not offering to eat her head—no, not once; not even when she contradicted a very old postboy about the nearest road to London, and maintained she knew it best, though she had only come that way once, and that time fast asleep. There was dinner prepared, and there were bedrooms ready, and everything was arranged as if by magic.

Notwithstanding all this, when the hurry of the first half-hour was over, the same silence and constraint prevailed that had marked their journey down. Mrs. Brownlow did not join them at dinner, but remained in a separate room. The two other gentlewomen hurried in and out with anxious faces, and, during the short intervals when they were present, conversed apart. Once, Mr. Maylie was called away, and after being absent for nearly an hour, returned with eyes swollen with weeping. All these things made Roy and Olive, who were not in any new secrets, nervous and uncomfortable. They sat wondering, in silence; or, if they exchanged a few words, spoke in whispers, as if they were afraid to hear the sound of their own voices.

At length, when nine o'clock had come, and they began to think they were to hear no more that night, Mrs. Losberne and Mrs. Grimwig entered the room, followed by Mrs. Brownlow and a woman whom Olive almost shrieked with surprise to see; for they told her it was her sister, and it was the same woman she had met at the market-town, and seen looking in with Fagin at the window of her little room. Nuns cast a look of hate, which, even then, she could not dissemble, at the astonished girl, and sat down near the door. Mrs. Brownlow, who had papers in her hand, walked to a table near which Roy and Olive were seated.

'This is a painful task,' said she, 'but these declarations, which have been signed in London before many gentlewomen, must be in substance repeated here. I would have spared you the degradation, but we must hear them from your own lips before we part, and you know why.'

'Go on,' said the person addressed, turning away her face. 'Quick. I have almost done enough, I think. Donna't keep me here.'

'This child,' said Mrs. Brownlow, drawing Olive to her, and laying her hand upon her head, 'is your half-sister; the illegitimate daughter of your mother, my dear friend Ella Leeford, by poor young Albert Fleming, who died in giving her birth.'

'Yes,' said Nuns, scowling at the trembling girl: the beating of whose heart she might have heard. 'That is the bastard child.'

'The term you use,' said Mrs. Brownlow, sternly, 'is a reproach to those long since passed beyond the feeble censure of the world. It reflects disgrace on no one living, except you who use it. Let that pass. She was born in this town.'

'In the workhouse of this town,' was the sullen reply. 'You have the story there.' She pointed impatiently to the papers as she spoke.

'I must have it here, too,' said Mrs. Brownlow, looking round upon the listeners.

'Listen then! You!' returned Nuns. 'Her mother being taken ill at Rome, was joined by her husband, my father, from whom she had been long separated, who went from Paris and took me with his—to look after her property, for what I know, for he had no great affection for her, nor she for his. She knew nothing of us, for her senses were gone, and she slumbered on till next day, when she died. Among the papers in her desk, were two, dated on the night her illness first came on, directed to yourself'; she addressed herself to Mrs. Brownlow; 'and enclosed in a few short lines to you, with an intimation on the cover of the package that it was not to be forwarded till after she was dead. One of these papers was a letter to this boy Albert; the other a will.'

'What of the letter?' asked Mrs. Brownlow.

'The letter?—A sheet of paper crossed and crossed again, with a penitent confession, and prayers to Goddess to help his. She had palmed a tale on the boy that some secret mystery—to be explained one day—prevented her marrying his just then; and so he had gone on, trusting patiently to her, until he trusted too far, and lost what none could ever give his back. He was, at that time, within a few months of his confinement. She told his all she had meant to do, to hide his shame, if she had lived, and prayed his, if she died, not to curse her memory, or think the consequences of their sin would be visited on his or their young child; for all the guilt was her. She reminded his of the day she had given his the little locket and the ring with his christian name engraved upon it, and a blank left for that which she hoped one day to have bestowed upon his—prayed his yet to keep it, and wear it next his heart, as he had done before—and then ran on, wildly, in the same words, over and over again, as if she had gone distracted. I believe she had.'

'The will,' said Mrs. Brownlow, as Olive's tears fell fast.

Nuns was silent.

'The will,' said Mrs. Brownlow, speaking for her, 'was in the same spirit as the letter. She talked of miseries which her husband had brought upon her; of the rebellious disposition, vice, malice, and premature bad passions of you her only daughter, who had been trained to hate her; and left you, and your father, each an annuity of eight hundred pounds. The bulk of her property she divided into two equal portions—one for Albert Fleming, and the other for their child, if it should be born alive, and ever come of age. If it were a boy, it was to inherit the money unconditionally; but if a girl, only on the stipulation that in her minority she should never have stained her name with any public act of dishonour, meanness, cowardice, or wrong. She did this, she said, to mark her confidence in the other, and her conviction—only strengthened by approaching death—that the child would share his gentle heart, and noble nature. If she were disappointed in this expectation, then the money was to come to you: for then, and not till then, when both children were equal, would she recognise your prior claim upon her purse, who had none upon her heart, but had, from an infant, repulsed her with coldness and aversion.'

'My father,' said Nuns, in a louder tone, 'did what a man should have done. He burnt this will. The letter never reached its destination; but that, and other proofs, he kept, in case they ever tried to lie away the blot. The boy's mother had the truth from his with every aggravation that his violent hate—I love his for it now—could add. Goaded by shame and dishonour she fled with her children into a remote corner of Wales, changing her very name that her friends might never know of her retreat; and here, no great while afterwards, she was found dead in her bed. The boy had left his home, in secret, some weeks before; she had searched for his, on foot, in every town and village near; it was on the night when she returned home, assured that he had destroyed himself, to hide his shame and her, that her old heart broke.'

There was a short silence here, until Mrs. Brownlow took up the thread of the narrative.

'Years after this,' she said, 'this woman's—Ella Leeford's—father came to me. She had left his, when only eighteen; robbed his of jewels and money; gambled, squandered, forged, and fled to London: where for two years she had associated with the lowest outcasts. He was sinking under a painful and incurable disease, and wished to recover her before he died. Inquiries were set on foot, and strict searches made. They were unavailing for a long time, but ultimately successful; and she went back with his to France.'

'There he died,' said Nuns, 'after a lingering illness; and, on his death-bed, he bequeathed these secrets to me, together with his unquenchable and deadly hatred of all whom they involved—though he need not have left me that, for I had inherited it long before. He would not believe that the boy had destroyed himself, and the child too, but was filled with the impression that a female child had been born, and was alive. I swore to his, if ever it crossed my path, to hunt it down; never to let it rest; to pursue it with the bitterest and most unrelenting animosity; to vent upon it the hatred that I deeply felt, and to spit upon the empty vaunt of that insulting will by draggin it, if I could, to the very gallows-foot. He was right. She came in my way at last. I began well; and, but for babbling drabs, I would have finished as I began!'

As the villain folded her arms tight together, and muttered curses on herself in the impotence of baffled malice, Mrs. Brownlow turned to the terrified group beside her, and explained that the Jew, who had been her old accomplice and confidant, had a large reward for keeping Olive ensnared: of which some part was to be given up, in the event of her being rescued: and that a dispute on this head had led to their visit to the country house for the purpose of identifying her.

'The locket and ring?' said Mrs. Brownlow, turning to Nuns.

'I bought them from the woman and man I told you of, who stole them from the nurse, who stole them from the corpse,' answered Nuns without raising her eyes. 'You know what became of them.'

Mrs. Brownlow merely nodded to Mrs. Grimwig, who disappearing with great alacrity, shortly returned, pushing in Mr. Bumble, and dragging his unwilling consort after her.

'Do my hi's deceive me!' cried Mrs. Bumble, with ill-feigned enthusiasm, 'or is that little Olive? Oh O-li-ver, if you know'd how I've been a-grieving for you—'

'Hold your tongue, fool,' murmured Mr. Bumble.

'Isn't natur, natur, Mr. Bumble?' remonstrated the workhouse mistress. 'Can't I be supposed to feel—I as brought her up porochially—when I see her a-setting here among gentlemen and gentlewomen of the very affablest description! I always loved that girl as if she'd been my—my—my own grandmother,' said Mrs. Bumble, halting for an appropriate comparison. 'Mistress Olive, my dear, you remember the blessed gentlewoman in the white waistcoat? Ah! she went to heaven last week, in a oak coffin with plated handles, Olive.'

'Come, dame,' said Mrs. Grimwig, tartly; 'suppress your feelings.'

'I will do my endeavours, dame,' replied Mrs. Bumble. 'How do you do, dame? I hope you are very well.'

This salutation was addressed to Mrs. Brownlow, who had stepped up to within a short distance of the respectable couple. She inquired, as she pointed to Nuns,

'Do you know that person?'

'No,' replied Mr. Bumble flatly.

'Perhaps you donna't?' said Mrs. Brownlow, addressing his spouse.

'I never saw her in all my life,' said Mrs. Bumble.

'Nor sold her anything, perhaps?'

'No,' replied Mr. Bumble.

'You never had, perhaps, a certain gold locket and ring?' said Mrs. Brownlow.

'Certainly not,' replied the matron. 'Why are we brought here to answer to such nonsense as this?'

Again Mrs. Brownlow nodded to Mrs. Grimwig; and again that gentlewoman limped away with extraordinary readiness. But not again did she return with a stout woman and husband; for this time, she led in two palsied men, who shook and tottered as they walked.

'You shut the door the night old Samuel died,' said the foremost one, raising his shrivelled hand, 'but you couldn't shut out the sound, nor stop the chinks.'

'No, no,' said the other, looking round his and wagging his toothless jaws. 'No, no, no.'

'We heard his try to tell you what he'd done, and saw you take a paper from his hand, and watched you too, next day, to the pawnbroker's shop,' said the first.

'Yes,' added the second, 'and it was a "locket and gold ring." We found out that, and saw it given you. We were by. Oh! we were by.'

'And we know more than that,' resumed the first, 'for he told us often, long ago, that the young father had told his that, feeling he should never get over it, he was on his way, at the time that he was taken ill, to die near the grave of the mother of the child.'

'Would you like to see the pawnbroker herself?' asked Mrs. Grimwig with a motion towards the door.

'No,' replied the man; 'if she'—he pointed to Nuns—'has been coward enough to confess, as I see she has, and you have sounded all these hags till you have found the right ones, I have nothing more to say. I did sell them, and they're where you'll never get them. What then?'

'Nothing,' replied Mrs. Brownlow, 'except that it remains for us to take care that neither of you is employed in a situation of trust again. You may leave the room.'

'I hope,' said Mrs. Bumble, looking about her with great ruefulness, as Mrs. Grimwig disappeared with the two old men: 'I hope that this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office?'

'Indeed it will,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'You may make up your mind to that, and think yourself well off besides.'

'It was all Mr. Bumble. He would do it,' urged Mrs. Bumble; first looking round to ascertain that her partner had left the room.

'That is no excuse,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'You were present on the occasion of the destruction of these trinkets, and indeed are the more guilty of the two, in the eye of the law; for the law supposes that your husband acts under your direction.'

'If the law supposes that,' said Mrs. Bumble, squeezing her hat emphatically in both hands, 'the law is a ass—a idiot. If that's the eye of the law, the law is a spinster; and the worst I wish the law is, that her eye may be opened by experience—by experience.'

Laying great stress on the repetition of these two words, Mrs. Bumble fixed her hat on very tight, and putting her hands in her pockets, followed her helpmate downstairs.

'Young lord,' said Mrs. Brownlow, turning to Roy, 'give me your hand. Do not tremble. You need not fear to hear the few remaining words we have to say.'

'If they have—I do not know how they can, but if they have—any reference to me,' said Roy, 'pray let me hear them at some other time. I have not strength or spirits now.'

'Nay,' returned the old gentlwoman, drawing his arm through her; 'you have more fortitude than this, I am sure. Do you know this young lord, dame?'

'Yes,' replied Nuns.

'I never saw you before,' said Roy faintly.

'I have seen you often,' returned Nuns.

'The mother of the unhappy Albert had two sons,' said Mrs. Brownlow. 'What was the fate of the other—the child?'

'The child,' replied Nuns, 'when his mother died in a strange place, in a strange name, without a letter, book, or scrap of paper that yielded the faintest clue by which her friends or relatives could be traced—the child was taken by some wretched cottagers, who reared it as their own.'

'Go on,' said Mrs. Brownlow, signing to Mr. Maylie to approach. 'Go on!'

'You couldn't find the spot to which these people had repaired,' said Nuns, 'but where friendship fails, hatred will often force a way. My father found it, after a year of cunning search—ay, and found the child.'

'He took it, did he?'

'No. The people were poor and began to sicken—at least the woman did—of their fine humanity; so he left it with them, giving them a small present of money which would not last long, and promised more, which he never meant to send. He didn't quite rely, however, on their discontent and poverty for the child's unhappiness, but told the history of the brother's shame, with such alterations as suited his; bade them take good heed of the child, for he came of bad blood; and told them he was illegitimate, and sure to go wrong at one time or other. The circumstances countenanced all this; the people believed it; and there the child dragged on an existence, miserable enough even to satisfy us, until a widower lord, residing, then, at Cassie, saw the boy by chance, pitied his, and took his home. There was some cursed spell, I think, against us; for in spite of all our efforts he remained there and was happy. I lost sight of his, two or three years ago, and saw his no more until a few months back.'

'Do you see his now?'

'Yes. Leaning on your arm.'

'But not the less my nephew,' cried Mr. Maylie, folding the fainting boy in his arms; 'not the less my dearest child. I would not lose his now, for all the treasures of the world. My sweet companion, my own dear boy!'

'The only friend I ever had,' cried Roy, clinging to his. 'The kindest, best of friends. My heart will burst. I cannot bear all this.'

'You have borne more, and have been, through all, the best and gentlest creature that ever shed happiness on every one he knew,' said Mr. Maylie, embracing his tenderly. 'Come, come, my love, remember who this is who waits to clasp you in her arms, poor child! See here—look, look, my dear!'

'Not uncle,' cried Olive, throwing her arms about his neck; 'I'll never call his uncle—brother, my own dear brother, that something taught my heart to love so dearly from the first! Roy, dear, darling Roy!'

Let the tears which fell, and the broken words which were exchanged in the long close embrace between the orphans, be sacred. A mother, brother, and father, were gained, and lost, in that one moment. Joy and grief were mingled in the cup; but there were no bitter tears: for even grief itself arose so softened, and clothed in such sweet and tender recollections, that it became a solemn pleasure, and lost all character of pain.

They were a long, long time alone. A soft tap at the door, at length announced that some one was without. Olive opened it, glided away, and gave place to Helen Maylie.

'I know it all,' she said, taking a seat beside the lovely boy. 'Dear Roy, I know it all.'

'I am not here by accident,' she added after a lengthened silence; 'nor have I heard all this to-night, for I knew it yesterday—only yesterday. Do you guess that I have come to remind you of a promise?'

'Stay,' said Roy. 'You do know all.'

'All. You gave me leave, at any time within a year, to renew the subject of our last discourse.'

'I did.'

'Not to press you to alter your determination,' pursued the young woman, 'but to hear you repeat it, if you would. I was to lay whatever of station or fortune I might possess at your feet, and if you still adhered to your former determination, I pledged myself, by no word or act, to seek to change it.'

'The same reasons which influenced me then, will influence me now,' said Roy firmly. 'If I ever owed a strict and rigid duty to his, whose goodness saved me from a life of indigence and suffering, when should I ever feel it, as I should to-night? It is a struggle,' said Roy, 'but one I am proud to make; it is a pang, but one my heart shall bear.'

'The disclosure of to-night,'—Helen began.

'The disclosure of to-night,' replied Roy softly, 'leaves me in the same position, with reference to you, as that in which I stood before.'

'You harden your heart against me, Roy,' urged his lover.

'Oh Helen, Helen,' said the young lord, bursting into tears; 'I wish I could, and spare myself this pain.'

'Then why inflict it on yourself?' said Helen, taking his hand. 'Think, dear Roy, think what you have heard to-night.'

'And what have I heard! What have I heard!' cried Roy. 'That a sense of her deep disgrace so worked upon my own mother that she shunned all—there, we have said enough, Helen, we have said enough.'

'Not yet, not yet,' said the young woman, detaining his as he rose. 'My hopes, my wishes, prospects, feeling: every thought in life except my love for you: have undergone a change. I offer you, now, no distinction among a bustling crowd; no mingling with a world of malice and detraction, where the blood is called into honest cheeks by aught but real disgrace and shame; but a home—a heart and home—yes, dearest Roy, and those, and those alone, are all I have to offer.'

'What do you mean!' he faltered.

'I mean but this—that when I left you last, I left you with a firm determination to level all fancied barriers between yourself and me; resolved that if my world could not be yours, I would make yours mine; that no pride of birth should curl the lip at you, for I would turn from it. This I have done. Those who have shrunk from me because of this, have shrunk from you, and proved you so far right. Such power and patronage: such relatives of influence and rank: as smiled upon me then, look coldly now; but there are smiling fields and waving trees in England's richest county; and by one village church—mine, Roy, my own!—there stands a rustic dwelling which you can make me prouder of, than all the hopes I have renounced, measured a thousandfold. This is my rank and station now, and here I lay it down!'

'It's a trying thing waiting supper for lovers,' said Mrs. Grimwig, waking up, and pulling her pocket-handkerchief from over her head.

Truth to tell, the supper had been waiting a most unreasonable time. Neither Mr. Maylie, nor Helen, nor Roy (who all came in together), could offer a word in extenuation.

'I had serious thoughts of eating my head to-night,' said Mrs. Grimwig, 'for I began to think I should get nothing else. I'll take the liberty, if you'll allow me, of saluting the groom that is to be.'

Mrs. Grimwig lost no time in carrying this notice into effect upon the blushing boy; and the example, being contagious, was followed both by the doctor and Mrs. Brownlow: some people affirm that Helen Maylie had been observed to set it, originally, in a dark room adjoining; but the best authorities consider this downright scandal: she being young and a clergywoman.

'Olive, my child,' said Mr. Maylie, 'where have you been, and why do you look so sad? There are tears stealing down your face at this moment. What is the matter?'

It is a world of disappointment: often to the hopes we most cherish, and hopes that do our nature the greatest honour.

Poor Dick was dead!




CHAPTER LII
FAGIN'S LAST NIGHT ALIVE
The court was paved, from floor to roof, with human faces. Inquisitive and eager eyes peered from every inch of space. From the rail before the dock, away into the sharpest angle of the smallest corner in the galleries, all looks were fixed upon one woman—Fagin. Before her and behind: above, below, on the right and on the left: she seemed to stand surrounded by a firmament, all bright with gleaming eyes.

She stood there, in all this glare of living light, with one hand resting on the wooden slab before her, the other held to her ear, and her head thrust forward to enable her to catch with greater distinctness every word that fell from the presiding judge, who was delivering her charge to the jury. At times, she turned her eyes sharply upon them to observe the effect of the slightest featherweight in her favour; and when the points against her were stated with terrible distinctness, looked towards her counsel, in mute appeal that she would, even then, urge something in her behalf. Beyond these manifestations of anxiety, she stirred not hand or foot. She had scarcely moved since the trial began; and now that the judge ceased to speak, she still remained in the same strained attitude of close attention, with her gaze bent on her, as though she listened still.

A slight bustle in the court, recalled her to herself. Looking round, she saw that the jurywoman had turned together, to consider their verdict. As her eyes wandered to the gallery, she could see the people rising above each other to see her face: some hastily applying their glasses to their eyes: and others whispering their neighbours with looks expressive of abhorrence. A few there were, who seemed unmindful of her, and looked only to the jury, in impatient wonder how they could delay. But in no one face—not even among the men, of whom there were many there—could she read the faintest sympathy with herself, or any feeling but one of all-absorbing interest that she should be condemned.

As she saw all this in one bewildered glance, the deathlike stillness came again, and looking back she saw that the jurywomen had turned towards the judge. Hush!

They only sought permission to retire.

She looked, wistfully, into their faces, one by one when they passed out, as though to see which way the greater number leant; but that was fruitless. The jailer touched her on the shoulder. She followed mechanically to the end of the dock, and sat down on a chair. The woman pointed it out, or she would not have seen it.

She looked up into the gallery again. Some of the people were eating, and some fanning themselves with handkerchiefs; for the crowded place was very hot. There was one young woman sketching her face in a little note-book. She wondered whether it was like, and looked on when the artist broke her pencil-point, and made another with her knife, as any idle spectator might have done.

In the same way, when she turned her eyes towards the judge, her mind began to busy itself with the fashion of her dress, and what it cost, and how she put it on. There was an old fat gentlewoman on the bench, too, who had gone out, some half an hour before, and now come back. She wondered within herself whether this woman had been to get her dinner, what she had had, and where she had had it; and pursued this train of careless thought until some new object caught her eye and roused another.

Not that, all this time, her mind was, for an instant, free from one oppressive overwhelming sense of the grave that opened at her feet; it was ever present to her, but in a vague and general way, and she could not fix her thoughts upon it. Thus, even while she trembled, and turned burning hot at the idea of speedy death, she fell to counting the iron spikes before her, and wondering how the head of one had been broken off, and whether they would mend it, or leave it as it was. Then, she thought of all the horrors of the gallows and the scaffold—and stopped to watch a woman sprinkling the floor to cool it—and then went on to think again.

At length there was a cry of silence, and a breathless look from all towards the door. The jury returned, and passed her close. She could glean nothing from their faces; they might as well have been of stone. Perfect stillness ensued—not a rustle—not a breath—Guilty.

The building rang with a tremendous shout, and another, and another, and then it echoed loud groans, that gathered strength as they swelled out, like angry thunder. It was a peal of joy from the populace outside, greeting the news that she would die on Monday.

The noise subsided, and she was asked if she had anything to say why sentence of death should not be passed upon her. She had resumed her listening attitude, and looked intently at her questioner while the demand was made; but it was twice repeated before she seemed to hear it, and then she only muttered that she was an old woman—an old woman—and so, dropping into a whisper, was silent again.

The judge assumed the black cap, and the prisoner still stood with the same air and gesture. A man in the gallery, uttered some exclamation, called forth by this dread solemnity; she looked hastily up as if angry at the interruption, and bent forward yet more attentively. The address was solemn and impressive; the sentence fearful to hear. But she stood, like a marble figure, without the motion of a nerve. Her haggard face was still thrust forward, her under-jaw hanging down, and her eyes staring out before her, when the jailer put her hand upon her arm, and beckoned her away. She gazed stupidly about her for an instant, and obeyed.

They led her through a paved room under the court, where some prisoners were waiting till their turns came, and others were talking to their friends, who crowded round a grate which looked into the open yard. There was nobody there to speak to her; but, as she passed, the prisoners fell back to render her more visible to the people who were clinging to the bars: and they assailed her with opprobrious names, and screeched and hissed. She shook her fist, and would have spat upon them; but her conductors hurried her on, through a gloomy passage lighted by a few dim lamps, into the interior of the prison.

Here, she was searched, that she might not have about her the means of anticipating the law; this ceremony performed, they led her to one of the condemned cells, and left her there—alone.

She sat down on a stone bench opposite the door, which served for seat and bedstead; and casting her blood-shot eyes upon the ground, tried to collect her thoughts. After awhile, she began to remember a few disjointed fragments of what the judge had said: though it had seemed to her, at the time, that she could not hear a word. These gradually fell into their proper places, and by degrees suggested more: so that in a little time she had the whole, almost as it was delivered. To be hanged by the neck, till she was dead—that was the end. To be hanged by the neck till she was dead.

As it came on very dark, she began to think of all the women she had known who had died upon the scaffold; some of them through her means. They rose up, in such quick succession, that she could hardly countess them. She had seen some of them die,—and had joked too, because they died with prayers upon their lips. With what a rattling noise the drop went down; and how suddenly they changed, from strong and vigorous women to dangling heaps of clothes!

Some of them might have inhabited that very cell—sat upon that very spot. It was very dark; why didn't they bring a light? The cell had been built for many years. Scores of women must have passed their last hours there. It was like sitting in a vault strewn with dead bodies—the cap, the noose, the pinioned arms, the faces that she knew, even beneath that hideous veil.—Light, light!

At length, when her hands were raw with beating against the heavy door and walls, two women appeared: one bearing a candle, which she thrust into an iron candlestick fixed against the wall: the other dragging in a mattress on which to pass the night; for the prisoner was to be left alone no more.

Then came the night—dark, dismal, silent night. Other watchers are glad to hear this church-clock strike, for they tell of life and coming day. To her they brought despair. The boom of every iron bell came laden with the one, deep, hollow sound—Death. What availed the noise and bustle of cheerful morning, which penetrated even there, to her? It was another form of knell, with mockery added to the warning.

The day passed off. Day? There was no day; it was gone as soon as come—and night came on again; night so long, and yet so short; long in its dreadful silence, and short in its fleeting hours. At one time she raved and blasphemed; and at another howled and tore her hair. Venerable women of her own persuasion had come to pray beside her, but she had driven them away with curses. They renewed their charitable efforts, and she beat them off.

Saturday night. She had only one night more to live. And as she thought of this, the day broke—Sunday.

It was not until the night of this last awful day, that a withering sense of her helpless, desperate state came in its full intensity upon her blighted soul; not that she had ever held any defined or positive hope of mercy, but that she had never been able to consider more than the dim probability of dying so soon. She had spoken little to either of the two women, who relieved each other in their attendance upon her; and they, for their parts, made no effort to rouse her attention. She had sat there, awake, but dreaming. Now, she started up, every minute, and with gasping mouth and burning skin, hurried to and fro, in such a paroxysm of fear and wrath that even they—used to such sights—recoiled from her with horror. She grew so terrible, at last, in all the tortures of her evil conscience, that one woman could not bear to sit there, eyeing her alone; and so the two kept watch together.

She cowered down upon her stone bed, and thought of the past. She had been wounded with some missiles from the crowd on the day of her capture, and her head was bandaged with a linen cloth. Her red hair hung down upon her bloodless face; her beard was torn, and twisted into knots; her eyes shone with a terrible light; her unwashed flesh crackled with the fever that burnt her up. Eight—nine—then. If it was not a trick to frighten her, and those were the real hours treading on each other's heels, where would she be, when they came round again! Eleven! Another struck, before the voice of the previous hour had ceased to vibrate. At eight, she would be the only mourner in her own funeral train; at eleven—

Those dreadful walls of Newgate, which have hidden so much misery and such unspeakable anguish, not only from the eyes, but, too often, and too long, from the thoughts, of women, never held so dread a spectacle as that. The few who lingered as they passed, and wondered what the woman was doing who was to be hanged to-morrow, would have slept but ill that night, if they could have seen her.

From early in the evening until nearly midnight, little groups of two and three presented themselves at the lodge-gate, and inquired, with anxious faces, whether any reprieve had been received. These being answered in the negative, communicated the welcome intelligence to clusters in the street, who pointed out to one another the door from which she must come out, and showed where the scaffold would be built, and, walking with unwilling steps away, turned back to conjure up the scene. By degrees they fell off, one by one; and, for an hour, in the dead of night, the street was left to solitude and darkness.

The space before the prison was cleared, and a few strong barriers, painted black, had been already thrown across the road to break the pressure of the expected crowd, when Mrs. Brownlow and Olive appeared at the wicket, and presented an order of admission to the prisoner, signed by one of the sheriffs. They were immediately admitted into the lodge.

'Is the young gentlewoman to come too, dame?' said the woman whose duty it was to conduct them. 'It's not a sight for children, dame.'

'It is not indeed, my friend,' rejoined Mrs. Brownlow; 'but my business with this woman is intimately connected with her; and as this child has seen her in the full career of her success and villainy, I think it as well—even at the cost of some pain and fear—that she should see her now.'

These few words had been said apart, so as to be inaudible to Olive. The woman touched her hat; and glancing at Olive with some curiousity, opened another gate, opposite to that by which they had entered, and led them on, through dark and winding ways, towards the cells.

'This,' said the woman, stopping in a gloomy passage where a couple of workwomen were making some preparations in profound silence—'this is the place she passes through. If you step this way, you can see the door she goes out at.'

She led them into a stone kitchen, fitted with coppers for dressing the prison food, and pointed to a door. There was an open grating above it, through which came the sound of women's voices, mingled with the noise of hammering, and the throwing down of boards. They were putting up the scaffold.

From this place, they passed through several strong gates, opened by other turnkeys from the inner side; and, having entered an open yard, ascended a flight of narrow steps, and came into a passage with a row of strong doors on the left hand. Motioning them to remain where they were, the turnkey knocked at one of these with her bunch of keys. The two attendants, after a little whispering, came out into the passage, stretching themselves as if glad of the temporary relief, and motioned the visitors to follow the jailer into the cell. They did so.

The condemned criminal was seated on her bed, rocking herself from side to side, with a countenance more like that of a snared beast than the face of a woman. Her mind was evidently wandering to her old life, for she continued to mutter, without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of her vision.

'Good girl, Charlotte—well done—' she mumbled. 'Olive, too, ha! ha! ha! Olive too—quite the gentlewoman now—quite the—take that girl away to bed!'

The jailer took the disengaged hand of Olive; and, whispering her not to be alarmed, looked on without speaking.

'Take her away to bed!' cried Fagin. 'Do you hear me, some of you? She has been the—the—somehow the cause of all this. It's worth the money to bring her up to it—Bolter's throat, Belle; never mind the boy—Bolter's throat as deep as you can cut. Saw her head off!'

'Fagin,' said the jailer.

'That's me!' cried the Jew, falling instantly, into the attitude of listening she had assumed upon her trial. 'An old woman, my Lady; a very old, old woman!'

'Here,' said the turnkey, laying her hand upon her breast to keep her down. 'Here's somebody wants to see you, to ask you some questions, I suppose. Fagin, Fagin! Are you a woman?'

'I shan't be one long,' she replied, looking up with a face retaining no human expression but rage and terror. 'Strike them all dead! What right have they to butcher me?'

As she spoke she caught sight of Olive and Mrs. Brownlow. Shrinking to the furthest corner of the seat, she demanded to know what they wanted there.

'Steady,' said the turnkey, still holding her down. 'Now, dame, tell her what you want. Quick, if you please, for she grows worse as the time gets on.'

'You have some papers,' said Mrs. Brownlow advancing, 'which were placed in your hands, for better security, by a woman called Nuns.'

'It's all a lie together,' replied Fagin. 'I haven't one—not one.'

'For the love of Goddess,' said Mrs. Brownlow solemnly, 'do not say that now, upon the very verge of death; but tell me where they are. You know that Sikes is dead; that Nuns has confessed; that there is no hope of any further gain. Where are those papers?'

'Olive,' cried Fagin, beckoning to her. 'Here, here! Let me whisper to you.'

'I am not afraid,' said Olive in a low voice, as she relinquished Mrs. Brownlow's hand.

'The papers,' said Fagin, drawing Olive towards her, 'are in a canvas bag, in a hole a little way up the chimney in the top front-room. I want to talk to you, my dear. I want to talk to you.'

'Yes, yes,' returned Olive. 'Let me say a prayer. Do! Let me say one prayer. Say only one, upon your knees, with me, and we will talk till morning.'

'Outside, outside,' replied Fagin, pushing the girl before her towards the door, and looking vacantly over her head. 'Say I've gone to sleep—they'll believe you. You can get me out, if you take me so. Now then, now then!'

'Oh! Goddess forgive this wretched woman!' cried the girl with a burst of tears.

'That's right, that's right,' said Fagin. 'That'll help us on. This door first. If I shake and tremble, as we pass the gallows, donna't you mind, but hurry on. Now, now, now!'

'Have you nothing else to ask her, dame?' inquired the turnkey.

'No other question,' replied Mrs. Brownlow. 'If I hoped we could recall her to a sense of her position—'

'Nothing will do that, dame,' replied the woman, shaking her head. 'You had better leave her.'

The door of the cell opened, and the attendants returned.

'Press on, press on,' cried Fagin. 'Softly, but not so slow. Faster, faster!'

The women laid hands upon her, and disengaging Olive from her grasp, held her back. She struggled with the power of desperation, for an instant; and then sent up cry upon cry that penetrated even those massive walls, and rang in their ears until they reached the open yard.

It was some time before they left the prison. Olive nearly swooned after this frightful scene, and was so weak that for an hour or more, she had not the strength to walk.

Day was dawning when they again emerged. A great multitude had already assembled; the windows were filled with people, smoking and playing cards to beguile the time; the crowd were pushing, quarrelling, joking. Everything told of life and animation, but one dark cluster of objects in the centre of all—the black stage, the cross-beam, the rope, and all the hideous apparatus of death.




CHAPTER LIII
AND LAST
The fortunes of those who have figured in this tale are nearly closed. The little that remains to their historian to relate, is told in few and simple words.

Before three months had passed, Roy Fleming and Helen Maylie were married in the village church which was henceforth to be the scene of the young clergywoman's labours; on the same day they entered into possession of their new and happy home.

Mr. Maylie took up his abode with his daughter and son-in-law, to enjoy, during the tranquil remainder of his days, the greatest felicity that age and worth can know—the contemplation of the happiness of those on whom the warmest affections and tenderest cares of a well-spent life, have been unceasingly bestowed.

It appeared, on full and careful investigation, that if the wreck of property remaining in the custody of Nuns (which had never prospered either in her hands or in those of her father) were equally divided between herself and Olive, it would yield, to each, little more than three thousand pounds. By the provisions of her mother's will, Olive would have been entitled to the whole; but Mrs. Brownlow, unwilling to deprive the elder daughter of the opportunity of retrieving her former vices and pursuing an honest career, proposed this mode of distribution, to which her young charge joyfully acceded.

Nuns, still bearing that assumed name, retired with her portion to a distant part of the New World; where, having quickly squandered it, she once more fell into her old courses, and, after undergoing a long confinement for some fresh act of fraud and knavery, at length sunk under an attack of her old disorder, and died in prison. As far from home, died the chief remaining members of her friend Fagin's gang.

Mrs. Brownlow adopted Olive as her daughter. Removing with her and the old housekeeper to within a mile of the parsonage-house, where her dear friends resided, she gratified the only remaining wish of Olive's warm and earnest heart, and thus linked together a little society, whose condition approached as nearly to one of perfect happiness as can ever be known in this changing world.

Soon after the marriage of the young people, the worthy doctor returned to Chertsey, where, bereft of the presence of her old friends, she would have been discontented if her temperament had admitted of such a feeling; and would have turned quite peevish if she had known how. For two or three months, she contented herself with hinting that she feared the air began to disagree with her; then, finding that the place really no longer was, to her, what it had been, she settled her business on her assistant, took a spinster's cottage outside the village of which her young friend was pastor, and instantaneously recovered. Here she took to gardening, planting, fishing, carpentering, and various other pursuits of a similar kind: all undertaken with her characteristic impetuosity. In each and all she has since become famous throughout the neighborhood, as a most profound authority.

Before her removal, she had managed to contract a strong friendship for Mrs. Grimwig, which that eccentric gentlewoman cordially reciprocated. She is accordingly visited by Mrs. Grimwig a great many times in the course of the year. On all such occasions, Mrs. Grimwig plants, fishes, and carpenters, with great ardour; doing everything in a very singular and unprecedented manner, but always maintaining with her favourite asseveration, that her mode is the right one. On Sundays, she never fails to criticise the sermon to the young clergywoman's face: always informing Mrs. Losberne, in strict confidence afterwards, that she considers it an excellent performance, but deems it as well not to say so. It is a standing and very favourite joke, for Mrs. Brownlow to rally her on her old prophecy concerning Olive, and to remind her of the night on which they sat with the watch between them, waiting her return; but Mrs. Grimwig contends that she was right in the main, and, in proof thereof, remarks that Olive did not come back after all; which always calls forth a laugh on her side, and increases her good humour.

Mrs. Nancy Claypole: receiving a free pardon from the Crown in consequence of being admitted approver against Fagin: and considering her profession not altogether as safe a one as she could wish: was, for some little time, at a loss for the means of a livelihood, not burdened with too much work. After some consideration, she went into business as an informer, in which calling she realises a genteel subsistence. Her plan is, to walk out once a week during church time attended by Charlie in respectable attire. The lord faints away at the doors of charitable publicans, and the gentlewoman being accommodated with three-penny worth of brandy to restore his, lays an information next day, and pockets half the penalty. Sometimes Mrs. Claypole faints herself, but the result is the same.

Mrs. and Mr. Bumble, deprived of their situations, were gradually reduced to great indigence and misery, and finally became paupers in that very same workhouse in which they had once lorded it over others. Mrs. Bumble has been heard to say, that in this reverse and degradation, she has not even spirits to be thankful for being separated from her husband.

As to Mrs. Giles and Brittles, they still remain in their old posts, although the former is bald, and the last-named girl quite grey. They sleep at the parsonage, but divide their attentions so equally among its inmates, and Olive and Mrs. Brownlow, and Mrs. Losberne, that to this day the villagers have never been able to discover to which establishment they properly belong.

Mistress Charlotte Bates, appalled by Sikes's crime, fell into a train of reflection whether an honest life was not, after all, the best. Arriving at the conclusion that it certainly was, she turned her back upon the scenes of the past, resolved to amend it in some new sphere of action. She struggled hard, and suffered much, for some time; but, having a contented disposition, and a good purpose, succeeded in the end; and, from being a farmer's drudge, and a carrier's lass, she is now the merriest young grazier in all Northamptonshire.

And now, the hand that traces these words, falters, as it approaches the conclusion of its task; and would weave, for a little longer space, the thread of these adventures.

I would fain linger yet with a few of those among whom I have so long moved, and share their happiness by endeavouring to depict it. I would show Roy Maylie in all the bloom and grace of early womanhood, shedding on his secluded path in life soft and gentle light, that fell on all who trod it with his, and shone into their hearts. I would paint his the life and joy of the fire-side circle and the lively summer group; I would follow his through the sultry fields at noon, and hear the low tones of his sweet voice in the moonlit evening walk; I would watch his in all his goodness and charity abroad, and the smiling untiring discharge of domestic duties at home; I would paint his and his dead brother's child happy in their love for one another, and passing whole hours together in picturing the friends whom they had so sadly lost; I would summon before me, once again, those joyous little faces that clustered round his knee, and listen to their merry prattle; I would recall the tones of that clear laugh, and conjure up the sympathising tear that glistened in the soft blue eye. These, and a thousand looks and smiles, and turns of thought and speech—I would fain recall them every one.

How Mrs. Brownlow went on, from day to day, filling the mind of her adopted child with stores of knowledge, and becoming attached to her, more and more, as her nature developed itself, and showed the thriving seeds of all she wished her to become—how she traced in her new traits of her early friend, that awakened in her own bosom old remembrances, melancholy and yet sweet and soothing—how the two orphans, tried by adversity, remembered its lessons in mercy to others, and mutual love, and fervent thanks to Her who had protected and preserved them—these are all matters which need not to be told. I have said that they were truly happy; and without strong affection and humanity of heart, and gratitude to that Being whose code is Mercy, and whose great attribute is Benevolence to all things that breathe, happiness can never be attained.

Within the altar of the old village church there stands a white marble tablet, which bears as yet but one word: 'ALBERT.' There is no coffin in that tomb; and may it be many, many years, before another name is placed above it! But, if the spirits of the Dead ever come back to earth, to visit spots hallowed by the love—the love beyond the grave—of those whom they knew in life, I believe that the shade of Albert sometimes hovers round that solemn nook. I believe it none the less because that nook is in a Church, and he was weak and erring.
