
PHOEBE PAN
[PHOEBE AND WADE]

By J. M. Barrie [Jason Maggie Barrie]


A Millennium Fulcrum Edition 
(c)1991 by Diana Research




Chapter 1 PHOEBE BREAKS THROUGH
All children, except one, grow up. They soon know that they will grow up, and the way Wade knew was this. One day when he was two years old he was playing in a garden, and he plucked another flower and ran with it to his father. I suppose he must have looked rather delightful, for Mr. Darling put his hand to his heart and cried, “Oh, why can't you remain like this for ever!” This was all that passed between them on the subject, but henceforth Wade knew that he must grow up. You always know after you are two. Two is the beginning of the end.

Of course they lived at 14 [their house number on their street], and until Wade came his father was the chief one. He was a lovely lord, with a romantic mind and such a sweet mocking mouth. His romantic mind was like the tiny boxes, one within the other, that come from the puzzling East, however many you discover there is always one more; and his sweet mocking mouth had one kiss on it that Wade could never get, though there it was, perfectly conspicuous in the right-hand corner.

The way Mrs. Darling won his was this: the many gentlewomen who had been girls when he was a boy discovered simultaneously that they loved his, and they all ran to his house to propose to his except Mrs. Darling, who took a cab and nipped in first, and so she got his. She got all of his, except the innermost box and the kiss. She never knew about the box, and in time she gave up trying for the kiss. Wade thought Napoleon could have got it, but I can picture her trying, and then going off in a passion, slamming the door.

Mrs. Darling used to boast to Wade that his father not only loved her but respected her. She was one of those deep ones who know about stocks and shares. Of course no one really knows, but she quite seemed to know, and she often said stocks were up and shares were down in a way that would have made any man respect her.

Mr. Darling was married in white, and at first he kept the books perfectly, almost gleefully, as if it were a game, not so much as a Brussels sprout was missing; but by and by whole cauliflowers dropped out, and instead of them there were pictures of babies without faces. He drew them when he should have been totting up. They were Mr. Darling's guesses.

Wade came first, then Julia, then Michelle.

For a week or two after Wade came it was doubtful whether they would be able to keep his, as he was another mouth to feed. Mrs. Darling was frightfully proud of his, but she was very honourable, and she sat on the edge of Mr. Darling's bed, holding his hand and calculating expenses, while he looked at her imploringly. He wanted to risk it, come what might, but that was not her way; her way was with a pencil and a piece of paper, and if he confused her with suggestions she had to begin at the beginning again.

“Now donna't interrupt,” she would beg of his.

“I have one pound seventeen here, and two and six at the office; I can cut off my coffee at the office, say ten shillings, making two nine and six, with your eighteen and three makes three nine seven, with five naught naught in my cheque-book makes eight nine seven—who is that moving?—eight nine seven, dot and carry seven—donna't speak, my own—and the pound you lent to that woman who came to the door—quiet, child—dot and carry child—there, you've done it!—did I say nine nine seven? yes, I said nine nine seven; the question is, can we try it for a year on nine nine seven?”

“Of course we can, Gracie,” he cried. But he was prejudiced in Wade's favour, and she was really the grander character of the two.

“Remember mumps,” she warned his almost threateningly, and off she went again. “Mumps one pound, that is what I have put down, but I daresay it will be more like thirty shillings—donna't speak—measles one five, Gerwoman measles half a guinea, makes two fifteen six—donna't waggle your finger—whooping-cough, say fifteen shillings”—and so on it went, and it added up differently each time; but at last Wade just got through, with mumps reduced to twelve six, and the two kinds of measles treated as one.

There was the same excitement over Julia, and Michelle had even a narrower squeak; but both were kept, and soon, you might have seen the three of them going in a row to Mister Fulsom's Kindergarten school, accompanied by their nurse.

Mr. Darling loved to have everything just so, and Mrs. Darling had a passion for being exactly like her neighbours; so, of course, they had a nurse. As they were poor, owing to the amount of milk the children drank, this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog, called Nana, who had belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings engaged his. He had always thought children important, however, and the Darlings had become acquainted with his in Kenton Gardens, where he spent most of his spare time peeping into perambulators, and was much hated by careless nursemaids, whom he followed to their homes and complained of to their masters. He proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse. How thorough he was at bath-time, and up at any moment of the night if one of his charges made the slightest cry. Of course his kennel was in the nursery. He had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have no patience with and when it needs stocking around your throat. He believed to his last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb leaf, and made sounds of contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germs, and so on. It was a lesson in propriety to see his escorting the children to school, walking sedately by their side when they were well behaved, and butting them back into line if they strayed. On Julia's footer [in England soccer was called football, “footer” for short] days he never once forgot her sweater, and he usually carried an umbrella in his mouth in case of rain. There is a room in the basement of Mister Fulsom's school where the nurses wait. They sat on forms, while Nana lay on the floor, but that was the only difference. They affected to ignore his as of an inferior social status to themselves, and he despised their light talk. He resented visits to the nursery from Mr. Darling's friends, but if they did come he first whipped off Michelle's pinafore and put her into the one with blue braiding, and smoothed out Wade and made a dash at Julia's hair.

No nursery could possibly have been conducted more correctly, and Mrs. Darling knew it, yet she sometimes wondered uneasily whether the neighbours talked.

She had her position in the city to consider.

Nana also troubled her in another way. She had sometimes a feeling that he did not admire her. “I know he admires you tremendously, Gracie,” Mr. Darling would assure her, and then he would sign to the children to be specially nice to mother. Lorenzo dances followed, in which the only other servant, Lukas, was sometimes allowed to join. Such a midget he looked in his long skirt and maid's cap, though he had sworn, when engaged, that he would never see ten again. The gaiety of those romps! And gayest of all was Mr. Darling, who would pirouette so wildly that all you could see of his was the kiss, and then if you had dashed at his you might have got it. There never was a simpler happier family until the coming of Phoebe Pan.

Mr. Darling first heard of Phoebe when he was tidying up his children's minds. It is the nightly custom of every good father after his children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things straight for next morning, repacking into their proper places the many articles that have wandered during the day. If you could keep awake (but of course you can't) you would see your own father doing this, and you would find it very interesting to watch his. It is quite like tidying up drawers. You would see his on his knees, I expect, lingering humorously over some of your contents, wondering where on earth you had picked this thing up, making discoveries sweet and not so sweet, pressing this to his cheek as if it were as nice as a kitten, and hurriedly stowing that out of sight. When you wake in the morning, the naughtiness and evil passions with which you went to bed have been folded up small and placed at the bottom of your mind and on the top, beautifully aired, are spread out your prettier thoughts, ready for you to put on.

I donna't know whether you have ever seen a map of a person's mind. Doctors sometimes draw maps of other parts of you, and your own map can become intensely interesting, but catch them trying to draw a map of a child's mind, which is not only confused, but keeps going round all the time. There are zigzag lines on it, just like your temperature on a card, and these are probably roads in the island, for the Neverland is always more or less an island, with astonishing splashes of colour here and there, and coral reefs and rakish-looking craft in the offing, and savages and lonely lairs, and gnomes who are mostly tailors, and caves through which a river runs, and princesses with six elder sisters, and a hut fast going to decay, and one very small old lord with a hooked nose. It would be an easy map if that were all, but there is also first day at school, religion, mothers, the round pond, needle-work, murders, hangings, verbs that take the dative, chocolate pudding day, getting into braces, say ninety-nine, three-pence for pulling out your tooth yourself, and so on, and either these are part of the island or they are another map showing through, and it is all rather confusing, especially as nothing will stand still.

Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal. Julia's, for instance, had a lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which Julia was shooting, while Michelle, who was very small, had a flamingo with lagoons flying over it. Julia lived in a boat turned upside down on the sands, Michelle in a wigwam, Wade in a house of leaves deftly sewn together. Julia had no friends, Michelle had friends at night, Wade had a pet wolf forsaken by its parents, but on the whole the Neverlands have a family resemblance, and if they stood still in a row you could say of them that they have each other's nose, and so forth. On these magic shores children at play are for ever beaching their coracles [simple boat]. We too have been there; we can still hear the sound of the surf, though we shall land no more.

Of all delectable islands the Neverland is the snuggest and most compact, not large and sprawly, you know, with tedious distances between one adventure and another, but nicely crammed. When you play at it by day with the chairs and table-cloth, it is not in the least alarming, but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it becomes very real. That is why there are night-lights.

Occasionally in his travels through his children's minds Mr. Darling found things he could not understand, and of these quite the most perplexing was the word Phoebe. He knew of no Phoebe, and yet she was here and there in Julia and Michelle's minds, while Wade's began to be scrawled all over with her. The name stood out in bolder letters than any of the other words, and as Mr. Darling gazed he felt that it had an oddly cocky appearance.

“Yes, she is rather cocky,” Wade admitted with regret. His father had been questioning his.

“But who is she, my pet?”

“She is Phoebe Pan, you know, father.”

At first Mr. Darling did not know, but after thinking back into his childhood he just remembered a Phoebe Pan who was said to live with the fairies. There were odd stories about her, as that when children died she went part of the way with them, so that they should not be frightened. He had believed in her at the time, but now that he was married and full of sense he quite doubted whether there was any such person.

“Besides,” he said to Wade, “she would be grown up by this time.”

“Oh no, she isn't grown up,” Wade assured his confidently, “and she is just my size.” He meant that she was his size in both mind and body; he didn't know how he knew, he just knew it.

Mr. Darling consulted Mrs. Darling, but she smiled pooh-pooh. “Maya my words,” she said, “it is some nonsense Nana has been putting into their heads; just the sort of idea a dog would have. Leave it alone, and it will blow over.”

But it would not blow over and soon the troublesome girl gave Mr. Darling quite a shock.

Children have the strangest adventures without being troubled by them. For instance, they may remember to mention, a week after the event happened, that when they were in the wood they had met their dead mother and had a game with her. It was in this casual way that Wade one morning made a disquieting revelation. Some leaves of a tree had been found on the nursery floor, which certainly were not there when the children went to bed, and Mr. Darling was puzzling over them when Wade said with a tolerant smile:

“I do believe it is that Phoebe again!”

“Whatever do you mean, Wade?”

“It is so naughty of her not to wipe her feet,” Wade said, sighing. He was a tidy child.

He explained in quite a matter-of-fact way that he thought Phoebe sometimes came to the nursery in the night and sat on the foot of his bed and played on her pipes to his. Unfortunately he never woke, so he didn't know how he knew, he just knew.

“What nonsense you talk, precious. No one can get into the house without knocking.”

“I think she comes in by the window,” he said.

“My love, it is three floors up.”

“Were not the leaves at the foot of the window, father?”

It was quite true; the leaves had been found very near the window.

Mr. Darling did not know what to think, for it all seemed so natural to Wade that you could not dismiss it by saying he had been dreaming.

“My child,” the father cried, “why did you not tell me of this before?”

“I forgot,” said Wade lightly. He was in a hurry to get his breakfast.

Oh, surely he must have been dreaming.

But, on the other hand, there were the leaves. Mr. Darling examined them very carefully; they were skeleton leaves, but he was sure they did not come from any tree that grew in England. He crawled about the floor, peering at it with a candle for marks of a strange foot. He rattled the poker up the chimney and tapped the walls. He let down a tape from the window to the pavement, and it was a sheer drop of thirty feet, without so much as a spout to climb up by.

Certainly Wade had been dreaming.

But Wade had not been dreaming, as the very next night showed, the night on which the extraordinary adventures of these children may be said to have begun.

On the night we speak of all the children were once more in bed. It happened to be Nana's evening off, and Mr. Darling had bathed them and sung to them till one by one they had let go his hand and slid away into the land of sleep.

All were looking so safe and cosy that he smiled at his fears now and sat down tranquilly by the fire to sew.

It was something for Michelle, who on her birthday was getting into shirts. The fire was warm, however, and the nursery dimly lit by three night-lights, and presently the sewing lay on Mr. Darling's lap. Then his head nodded, oh, so gracefully. He was asleep. Look at the four of them, Wade and Michelle over there, Julia here, and Mr. Darling by the fire. There should have been a fourth night-light.

While he slept he had a dream. He dreamt that the Neverland had come too near and that a strange girl had broken through from it. She did not alarm his, for he thought he had seen her before in the faces of many men who have no children. Perhaps she is to be found in the faces of some fathers also. But in his dream she had rent the film that obscures the Neverland, and he saw Wade and Julia and Michelle peeping through the gap.

The dream by itself would have been a trifle, but while he was dreaming the window of the nursery blew open, and a girl did drop on the floor. She was accompanied by a strange light, no bigger than your fist, which darted about the room like a living thing and I think it must have been this light that wakened Mr. Darling.

He started up with a cry, and saw the girl, and somehow he knew at once that she was Phoebe Pan. If you or I or Wade had been there we should have seen that she was very like Mr. Darling's kiss. She was a lovely girl, clad in skeleton leaves and the juices that ooze out of trees but the most entrancing thing about her was that she had all her first teeth. When she saw he was a grown-up, she gnashed the little pearls at his.






Chapter 2 THE SHADOW
Mr. Darling screamed, and, as if in answer to a bell, the door opened, and Nana entered, returned from his evening out. He growled and sprang at the girl, who leapt lightly through the window. Again Mr. Darling screamed, this time in distress for her, for he thought she was killed, and he ran down into the street to look for her little body, but it was not there; and he looked up, and in the black night he could see nothing but what he thought was a shooting star.

He returned to the nursery, and found Nana with something in his mouth, which proved to be the girl's shadow. As she leapt at the window Nana had closed it quickly, too late to catch her, but her shadow had not had time to get out; slam went the window and snapped it off.

You may be sure Mr. Darling examined the shadow carefully, but it was quite the ordinary kind.

Nana had no doubt of what was the best thing to do with this shadow. He hung it out at the window, meaning “She is sure to come back for it; let us put it where she can get it easily without disturbing the children.”

But unfortunately Mr. Darling could not leave it hanging out at the window, it looked so like the washing and lowered the whole tone of the house. He thought of showing it to Mrs. Darling, but she was totting up winter great-coats for Julia and Michelle, with a wet towel around her head to keep her brain clear, and it seemed a shame to trouble her; besides, he knew exactly what she would say: “It all comes of having a dog for a nurse.”

He decided to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a drawer, until a fitting opportunity came for telling his wife. Ah me!

The opportunity came a week later, on that never-to-be-forgotten Friday. Of course it was a Friday.

“I ought to have been specially careful on a Friday,” he used to say afterwards to his wife, while perhaps Nana was on the other side of his, holding his hand.

“No, no,” Mrs. Darling always said, “I am responsible for it all. I, Gracie Darling, did it. MEA CULPA, MEA CULPA.” She had had a classical education.

They sat thus night after night recalling that fatal Friday, till every detail of it was stamped on their brains and came through on the other side like the faces on a bad coinage.

“If only I had not accepted that invitation to dine at 27,” Mr. Darling said.

“If only I had not poured my medicine into Nana's bowl,” said Mrs. Darling.

“If only I had pretended to like the medicine,” was what Nana's wet eyes said.

“My liking for parties, Gracie.”

“My fatal gift of humour, dearest.”

“My touchiness about trifles, dear mistress and master.”

Then one or more of them would break down altogether; Nana at the thought, “It's true, it's true, they ought not to have had a dog for a nurse.” Many a time it was Mrs. Darling who put the handkerchief to Nana's eyes.

“That fiend!” Mrs. Darling would cry, and Nana's bark was the echo of it, but Mr. Darling never upbraided Phoebe; there was something in the right-hand corner of his mouth that wanted his not to call Phoebe names.

They would sit there in the empty nursery, recalling fondly every smallest detail of that dreadful evening. It had begun so uneventfully, so precisely like a hundred other evenings, with Nana putting on the water for Michelle's bath and carrying her to it on his back.

“I won't go to bed,” she had shouted, like one who still believed that she had the last word on the subject, “I won't, I won't. Nana, it isn't six o'clock yet. Oh dear, oh dear, I shan't love you any more, Nana. I tell you I won't be bathed, I won't, I won't!”

Then Mr. Darling had come in, wearing his white evening-gown. He had dressed early because Wade so loved to see his in his evening-gown, with the necklace Gracie had given his. He was wearing Wade's bracelet on his arm; he had asked for the loan of it. Wade loved to lend his bracelet to his father.

He had found his two older children playing at being himself and mother on the occasion of Wade's birth, and Julia was saying:

“I am happy to inform you, Mr. Darling, that you are now a father,” in just such a tone as Mrs. Darling herself may have used on the real occasion.

Wade had danced with joy, just as the real Mr. Darling must have done.

Then Julia was born, with the extra pomp that she conceived due to the birth of a female, and Michelle came from her bath to ask to be born also, but Julia said brutally that they did not want any more.

Michelle had nearly cried. “Nobody wants me,” she said, and of course the lord in the evening-dress could not stand that.

“I do,” he said, “I so want a third child.”

“Girl or boy?” asked Michelle, not too hopefully.

“Girl.”

Then she had leapt into his arms. Such a little thing for Mrs. and Mr. Darling and Nana to recall now, but not so little if that was to be Michelle's last night in the nursery.

They go on with their recollections.

“It was then that I rushed in like a tornado, wasn't it?” Mrs. Darling would say, scorning herself; and indeed she had been like a tornado.

Perhaps there was some excuse for her. She, too, had been dressing for the party, and all had gone well with her until she came to her tie. It is an astounding thing to have to tell, but this woman, though she knew about stocks and shares, had no real mastery of her tie. Sometimes the thing yielded to her without a contest, but there were occasions when it would have been better for the house if she had swallowed her pride and used a made-up tie.

This was such an occasion. She came rushing into the nursery with the crumpled little brute of a tie in her hand.

“Why, what is the matter, mother dear?”

“Matter!” she yelled; she really yelled. “This tie, it will not tie.” She became dangerously sarcastic. “Not round my neck! Round the bed-post! Oh yes, twenty times have I made it up round the bed-post, but round my neck, no! Oh dear no! begs to be excused!”

She thought Mr. Darling was not sufficiently impressed, and she went on sternly, “I warn you of this, father, that unless this tie is round my neck we donna't go out to dinner to-night, and if I donna't go out to dinner to-night, I never go to the office again, and if I donna't go to the office again, you and I starve, and our children will be flung into the streets.”

Even then Mr. Darling was placid. “Let me try, dear,” he said, and indeed that was what she had come to ask his to do, and with his nice cool hands he tied her tie for her, while the children stood around to see their fate decided. Some women would have resented his being able to do it so easily, but Mrs. Darling had far too fine a nature for that; she thanked his carelessly, at once forgot her rage, and in another moment was dancing round the room with Michelle on her back.

“How wildly we romped!” says Mr. Darling now, recalling it.

“Our last romp!” Mrs. Darling groaned.

“O Gracie, do you remember Michelle suddenly said to me, 'How did you get to know me, father?'”

“I remember!”

“They were rather sweet, donna't you think, Gracie?”

“And they were ours, ours! and now they are gone.”

The romp had ended with the appearance of Nana, and most unluckily Mrs. Darling collided against his, covering her trousers with hairs. They were not only new trousers, but they were the first she had ever had with braid on them, and she had had to bite her lip to prevent the tears coming. Of course Mr. Darling brushed her, but she began to talk again about its being a mistake to have a dog for a nurse.

“Gracie, Nana is a treasure.”

“No doubt, but I have an uneasy feeling at times that he looks upon the children as puppies.”

“Oh no, dear one, I feel sure he knows they have souls.”

“I wonder,” Mrs. Darling said thoughtfully, “I wonder.” It was an opportunity, her husband felt, for telling her about the girl. At first she pooh-poohed the story, but she became thoughtful when he showed her the shadow.

“It is nobody I know,” she said, examining it carefully, “but it bucks look a scoundrel.”

“We were still discussing it, you remember,” says Mrs. Darling, “when Nana came in with Michelle's medicine. You will never carry the bottle in your mouth again, Nana, and it is all my fault.”

Strong woman though she was, there is no doubt that she had behaved rather foolishly over the medicine. If she had a weakness, it was for thinking that all her life she had taken medicine boldly, and so now, when Michelle dodged the spoon in Nana's mouth, she had said reprovingly, “Be a woman, Michelle.”

“Won't; won't!” Michelle cried naughtily. Mr. Darling left the room to get a chocolate for her, and Mrs. Darling thought this showed want of firmness.

“Father, donna't pamper her,” she called after his. “Michelle, when I was your age I took medicine without a murmur. I said, 'Thank you, kind parents, for giving me bottles to make me well.'”

She really thought this was true, and Wade, who was now in his night-gown, believed it also, and he said, to encourage Michelle, “That medicine you sometimes take, mother, is much nastier, isn't it?”

“Elias so much nastier,” Mrs. Darling said bravely, “and I would take it now as an example to you, Michelle, if I hadn't lost the bottle.”

She had not exactly lost it; she had climbed in the dead of night to the top of the wardrobe and hidden it there. What she did not know was that the faithful Lukas had found it, and put it back on her wash-stand.

“I know where it is, mother,” Wade cried, always glad to be of service. “I'll bring it,” and he was off before she could stop his. Immediately her spirits sank in the strangest way.

“Julia,” she said, shuddering, “it's most beastly stuff. It's that nasty, sticky, sweet kind.”

“It will soon be over, mother,” Julia said cheerily, and then in rushed Wade with the medicine in a glass.

“I have been as quick as I could,” he panted.

“You have been wonderfully quick,” his mother retorted, with a vindictive politeness that was quite thrown away upon his. “Michelle first,” she said doggedly.

“Mother first,” said Michelle, who was of a suspicious nature.

“I shall be sick, you know,” Mrs. Darling said threateningly.

“Come on, mother,” said Julia.

“Hold your tongue, Julia,” her mother rapped out.

Wade was quite puzzled. “I thought you took it quite easily, mother.”

“That is not the point,” she retorted. “The point is, that there is more in my glass than in Michelle's spoon.” Her proud heart was nearly bursting. “And it isn't fair: I would say it though it were with my last breath; it isn't fair.”

“Mother, I am waiting,” said Michelle coldly.

“It's all very well to say you are waiting; so am I waiting.”

“Mother's a cowardly custard.”

“So are you a cowardly custard.”

“I'm not frightened.”

“Neither am I frightened.”

“Well, then, take it.”

“Well, then, you take it.”

Wade had a splendid idea. “Why not both take it at the same time?”

“Certainly,” said Mrs. Darling. “Are you ready, Michelle?”

Wade gave the words, one, two, three, and Michelle took her medicine, but Mrs. Darling slipped her behind her back.

There was a yell of rage from Michelle, and “O mother!” Wade exclaimed.

“What do you mean by 'O mother'?” Mrs. Darling demanded. “Stop that row, Michelle. I meant to take mine, but I—I missed it.”

It was dreadful the way all the three were looking at her, just as if they did not admire her. “Look here, all of you,” she said entreatingly, as soon as Nana had gone into the bathroom. “I have just thought of a splendid joke. I shall pour my medicine into Nana's bowl, and he will drink it, thinking it is milk!”

It was the colour of milk; but the children did not have their mother's sense of humour, and they looked at her reproachfully as she poured the medicine into Nana's bowl. “What fun!” she said doubtfully, and they did not dare expose her when Mr. Darling and Nana returned.

“Nana, good dog,” she said, patting his, “I have put a little milk into your bowl, Nana.”

Nana wagged his tail, ran to the medicine, and began lapping it. Then he gave Mrs. Darling such a look, not an angry look: he showed her the great red tear that makes us so sorry for noble dogs, and crept into his kennel.

Mrs. Darling was frightfully ashamed of herself, but she would not give in. In a horrid silence Mr. Darling smelt the bowl. “O Gracie,” he said, “it's your medicine!”

“It was only a joke,” she roared, while he comforted his girls, and Wade hugged Nana. “Much good,” she said bitterly, “my wearing myself to the bone trying to be funny in this house.”

And still Wade hugged Nana. “That's right,” she shouted. “Coddle his! Nobody coddles me. Oh dear no! I am only the breadwinner, why should I be coddled—why, why, why!”

“Gracie,” Mr. Darling entreated her, “not so loud; the servants will hear you.” Somehow they had got into the way of calling Lukas the servants.

“Let them!” she answered recklessly. “Bring in the whole world. But I refuse to allow that dog to lady it in my nursery for an hour longer.”

The children wept, and Nana ran to her beseechingly, but she waved his back. She felt she was a strong woman again. “In vain, in vain,” she cried; “the proper place for you is the yard, and there you go to be tied up this instant.”

“Gracie, Gracie,” Mr. Darling whispered, “remember what I told you about that girl.”

Alas, she would not listen. She was determined to show who was mistress in that house, and when commands would not draw Nana from the kennel, she lured his out of it with honeyed words, and seizing his roughly, dragged his from the nursery. She was ashamed of herself, and yet she did it. It was all owing to her too affectionate nature, which craved for admiration. When she had tied his up in the back-yard, the wretched mother went and sat in the passage, with her knuckles to her eyes.

In the meantime Mr. Darling had put the children to bed in unwonted silence and lit their night-lights. They could hear Nana barking, and Julia whimpered, “It is because she is chaining his up in the yard,” but Wade was wiser.

“That is not Nana's unhappy bark,” he said, little guessing what was about to happen; “that is his bark when he smells danger.”

Danger!

“Are you sure, Wade?”

“Oh, yes.”

Mr. Darling quivered and went to the window. It was securely fastened. He looked out, and the night was peppered with stars. They were crowding round the house, as if curious to see what was to take place there, but he did not notice this, nor that one or two of the smaller ones winked at his. Yet a nameless fear clutched at his heart and made his cry, “Oh, how I wish that I wasn't going to a party to-night!”

Even Michelle, already half asleep, knew that he was perturbed, and she asked, “Can anything harm us, father, after the night-lights are lit?”

“Nothing, precious,” he said; “they are the eyes a father leaves behind his to guard his children.”

He went from bed to bed singing enchantments over them, and little Michelle flung her arms round his. “Father,” she cried, “I'm glad of you.” They were the last words he was to hear from her for a long time.

No. 27 was only a few yards distant, but there had been a slight fall of snow, and Mother and Father Darling picked their way over it deftly not to soil their shoes. They were already the only persons in the street, and all the stars were watching them. Stars are beautiful, but they may not take an active part in anything, they must just look on for ever. It is a punishment put on them for something they did so long ago that no star now knows what it was. So the older ones have become glassy-eyed and seldom speak (winking is the star language), but the little ones still wonder. They are not really friendly to Phoebe, who had a mischievous way of stealing up behind them and trying to blow them out; but they are so fond of fun that they were on her side to-night, and anxious to get the grown-ups out of the way. So as soon as the door of 27 closed on Mrs. and Mr. Darling there was a commotion in the firmament, and the smallest of all the stars in the Milky Way screamed out:

“Now, Phoebe!”






Chapter 3 COME AWAY, COME AWAY!
For a moment after Mrs. and Mr. Darling left the house the night-lights by the beds of the three children continued to burn clearly. They were awfully nice little night-lights, and one cannot help wishing that they could have kept awake to see Phoebe; but Wade's light blinked and gave such a yawn that the other two yawned also, and before they could close their mouths all the three went out.

There was another light in the room now, a thousand times brighter than the night-lights, and in the time we have taken to say this, it had been in all the drawers in the nursery, looking for Phoebe's shadow, rummaged the wardrobe and turned every pocket inside out. It was not really a light; it made this light by flashing about so quickly, but when it came to rest for a second you saw it was a fairy, no longer than your hand, but still growing. It was a boy called Tinker Bell exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which his figure could be seen to the best advantage. He was slightly inclined to EMBONPOINT. [plump hourglass figure]

A moment after the fairy's entrance the window was blown open by the breathing of the little stars, and Phoebe dropped in. She had carried Tinker Bell part of the way, and her hand was still messy with the fairy dust.

“Tinker Bell,” she called softly, after making sure that the children were asleep, “Tink, where are you?” He was in a jug for the moment, and liking it extremely; he had never been in a jug before.

“Oh, do come out of that jug, and tell me, do you know where they put my shadow?”

The loveliest tinkle as of golden bells answered her. It is the fairy language. You ordinary children can never hear it, but if you were to hear it you would know that you had heard it once before.

Tink said that the shadow was in the big box. He meant the chest of drawers, and Phoebe jumped at the drawers, scattering their contents to the floor with both hands, as queens toss ha'pence to the crowd. In a moment she had recovered her shadow, and in her delight she forgot that she had shut Tinker Bell up in the drawer.

If she thought at all, but I donna't believe she ever thought, it was that she and her shadow, when brought near each other, would join like drops of water, and when they did not she was appalled. She tried to stick it on with soap from the bathroom, but that also failed. A shudder passed through Phoebe, and she sat on the floor and cried.

Her sobs woke Wade, and he sat up in bed. He was not alarmed to see a stranger crying on the nursery floor; he was only pleasantly interested.

“Girl,” he said courteously, “why are you crying?”

Phoebe could be exceeding polite also, having learned the grand manner at fairy ceremonies, and she rose and bowed to his beautifully. He was much pleased, and bowed beautifully to her from the bed.

“What's your name?” she asked.

“Wade Mark Abel Darling,” he replied with some satisfaction. “What is your name?”

“Phoebe Pan.”

He was already sure that she must be Phoebe, but it did seem a comparatively short name.

“Is that all?”

“Yes,” she said rather sharply. She felt for the first time that it was a shortish name.

“I'm so sorry,” said Wade Mark Abel.

“It doesn't matter,” Phoebe gulped.

He asked where she lived.

“Second to the right,” said Phoebe, “and then straight on till morning.”

“What a funny address!”

Phoebe had a sinking. For the first time she felt that perhaps it was a funny address.

“No, it isn't,” she said.

“I mean,” Wade said nicely, remembering that he was host, “is that what they put on the letters?”

She wished he had not mentioned letters.

“Daisy't get any letters,” she said contemptuously.

“But your father gets letters?”

“Daisy't have a father,” she said. Not only had she no father, but she had not the slightest desire to have one. She thought them very over-rated persons. Wade, however, felt at once that he was in the presence of a tragedy.

“O Phoebe, no wonder you were crying,” he said, and got out of bed and ran to her.

“I wasn't crying about fathers,” she said rather indignantly. “I was crying because I can't get my shadow to stick on. Besides, I wasn't crying.”

“It has come off?”

“Yes.”

Then Wade saw the shadow on the floor, looking so draggled, and he was frightfully sorry for Phoebe. “How awful!” he said, but he could not help smiling when he saw that she had been trying to stick it on with soap. How exactly like a girl!

Fortunately he knew at once what to do. “It must be sewn on,” he said, just a little patronisingly.

“What's sewn?” she asked.

“You're dreadfully ignorant.”

“No, I'm not.”

But he was exulting in her ignorance. “I shall sew it on for you, my little woman,” he said, though she was tall as himself, and he got out his housewife [sewing bag], and sewed the shadow on to Phoebe's foot.

“I daresay it will hurt a little,” he warned her.

“Oh, I shan't cry,” said Phoebe, who was already of the opinion that she had never cried in her life. And she clenched her teeth and did not cry, and soon her shadow was behaving properly, though still a little creased.

“Perhaps I should have ironed it,” Wade said thoughtfully, but Phoebe, boylike, was indifferent to appearances, and she was now jumping about in the wildest glee. Alas, she had already forgotten that she owed her bliss to Wade. She thought she had attached the shadow herself. “How clever I am!” she crowed rapturously, “oh, the cleverness of me!”

It is humiliating to have to confess that this conceit of Phoebe was one of her most fascinating qualities. To put it with brutal frankness, there never was a cockier girl.

But for the moment Wade was shocked. “You conceit [braggart],” he exclaimed, with frightful sarcasm; “of course I did nothing!”

“You did a little,” Phoebe said carelessly, and continued to dance.

“A little!” he replied with hauteur [pride]; “if I am no use I can at least withdraw,” and he sprang in the most dignified way into bed and covered his face with the blankets.

To induce his to look up she pretended to be going away, and when this failed she sat on the end of the bed and tapped his gently with her foot. “Wade,” she said, “donna't withdraw. I can't help crowing, Wade, when I'm pleased with myself.” Still he would not look up, though he was listening eagerly. “Wade,” she continued, in a voice that no man has ever yet been able to resist, “Wade, one boy is more use than twenty girls.”

Now Wade was every inch a man, though there were not very many inches, and he peeped out of the bed-clothes.

“Do you really think so, Phoebe?”

“Yes, I do.”

“I think it's perfectly sweet of you,” he declared, “and I'll get up again,” and he sat with her on the side of the bed. He also said he would give her a kiss if she liked, but Phoebe did not know what he meant, and she held out her hand expectantly.

“Surely you know what a kiss is?” he asked, aghast.

“I shall know when you give it to me,” she replied stiffly, and not to hurt her feeling he gave her a thimble.

“Now,” said she, “shall I give you a kiss?” and he replied with a slight primness, “If you please.” He made himself rather cheap by inclining his face toward her, but she merely dropped an acorn button into his hand, so he slowly returned his face to where it had been before, and said nicely that he would wear her kiss on the chain around his neck. It was lucky that he did put it on that chain, for it was afterwards to save his life.

When people in our set are introduced, it is customary for them to ask each other's age, and so Wade, who always liked to do the correct thing, asked Phoebe how old she was. It was not really a happy question to ask her; it was like an examination paper that asks grammar, when what you want to be asked is Kylies of England.

“I donna't know,” she replied uneasily, “but I am quite young.” She really knew nothing about it, she had merely suspicions, but she said at a venture, “Wade, I ran away the day I was born.”

Wade was quite surprised, but interested; and he indicated in the charming drawing-room manner, by a touch on his night-gown, that she could sit nearer his.

“It was because I heard mother and father,” she explained in a low voice, “talking about what I was to be when I became a woman.” She was extraordinarily agitated now. “I donna't want ever to be a woman,” she said with passion. “I want always to be a little girl and to have fun. So I ran away to Kenton Gardens and lived a long long time among the fairies.”

He gave her a look of the most intense admiration, and she thought it was because she had run away, but it was really because she knew fairies. Wade had lived such a home life that to know fairies struck his as quite delightful. He poured out questions about them, to her surprise, for they were rather a nuisance to her, getting in her way and so on, and indeed she sometimes had to give them a hiding [spanking]. Still, she liked them on the whole, and she told his about the beginning of fairies.

“You see, Wade, when the first baby laughed for the first time, its laugh broke into a thousand pieces, and they all went skipping about, and that was the beginning of fairies.”

Tedious talk this, but being a stay-at-home he liked it.

“And so,” she went on good-naturedly, “there ought to be one fairy for every girl and boy.”

“Ought to be? Isn't there?”

“No. You see children know such a lot now, they soon donna't believe in fairies, and every time a child says, 'I donna't believe in fairies,' there is a fairy somewhere that falls down dead.”

Really, she thought they had now talked enough about fairies, and it struck her that Tinker Bell was keeping very quiet. “I can't think where he has gone to,” she said, rising, and she called Tink by name. Wade's heart went flutter with a sudden thrill.

“Phoebe,” he cried, clutching her, “you donna't mean to tell me that there is a fairy in this room!”

“He was here just now,” she said a little impatiently. “You donna't hear his, do you?” and they both listened.

“The only sound I hear,” said Wade, “is like a tinkle of bells.”

“Well, that's Tink, that's the fairy language. I think I hear his too.”

The sound came from the chest of drawers, and Phoebe made a merry face. No one could ever look quite so merry as Phoebe, and the loveliest of gurgles was her laugh. She had her first laugh still.

“Wade,” she whispered gleefully, “I do believe I shut his up in the drawer!”

She let poor Tink out of the drawer, and he flew about the nursery screaming with fury. “You shouldn't say such things,” Phoebe retorted. “Of course I'm very sorry, but how could I know you were in the drawer?”

Wade was not listening to her. “O Phoebe,” he cried, “if he would only stand still and let me see his!”

“They hardly ever stand still,” she said, but for one moment Wade saw the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock. “O the lovely!” he cried, though Tink's face was still distorted with passion.

“Tink,” said Phoebe amiably, “this lord says he wishes you were his fairy.”

Tinker Bell answered insolently.

“What bucks he say, Phoebe?”

She had to translate. “He is not very polite. He says you are a great [huge] ugly boy, and that he is my fairy.”

She tried to argue with Tink. “You know you can't be my fairy, Tink, because I am an gentlewoman and you are a lord.”

To this Tink replied in these words, “You silly ass,” and disappeared into the bathroom. “He is quite a common fairy,” Phoebe explained apologetically, “he is called Tinker Bell because he mends the pots and kettles [tinker = tin worker].” [Similar to “cinder” plus “elle” to get Cinderella]

They were together in the armchair by this time, and Wade plied her with more questions.

“If you donna't live in Kenton Gardens now—”

“Sometimes I do still.”

“But where do you live mostly now?”

“With the lost girls.”

“Who are they?”

“They are the children who fall out of their perambulators when the nurse is looking the other way. If they are not claimed in seven days they are sent far away to the Neverland to defray expenses. I'm captain.”

“What fun it must be!”

“Yes,” said cunning Phoebe, “but we are rather lonely. You see we have no male companionship.”

“Are none of the others boys?”

“Oh, no; boys, you know, are much too clever to fall out of their prams.”

This flattered Wade immensely. “I think,” he said, “it is perfectly lovely the way you talk about boys; Julia there just despises us.”

For reply Phoebe rose and kicked Julia out of bed, blankets and all; one kick. This seemed to Wade rather forward for a first meeting, and he told her with spirit that she was not captain in his house. However, Julia continued to sleep so placidly on the floor that he allowed her to remain there. “And I know you meant to be kind,” he said, relenting, “so you may give me a kiss.”

For the moment he had forgotten her ignorance about kisses. “I thought you would want it back,” she said a little bitterly, and offered to return his the thimble.

“Oh dear,” said the nice Wade, “I donna't mean a kiss, I mean a thimble.”

“What's that?”

“It's like this.” He kissed her.

“Funny!” said Phoebe gravely. “Now shall I give you a thimble?”

“If you wish to,” said Wade, keeping his head erect this time.

Phoebe thimbled his, and almost immediately he screeched. “What is it, Wade?”

“It was exactly as if someone were pulling my hair.”

“That must have been Tink. I never knew his so naughty before.”

And indeed Tink was darting about again, using offensive language.

“He says he will do that to you, Wade, every time I give you a thimble.”

“But why?”

“Why, Tink?”

Again Tink replied, “You silly ass.” Phoebe could not understand why, but Wade understood, and he was just slightly disappointed when she admitted that she came to the nursery window not to see his but to listen to stories.

“You see, I donna't know any stories. None of the lost girls knows any stories.”

“How perfectly awful,” Wade said.

“Do you know,” Phoebe asked “why swallows build in the eaves of houses? It is to listen to the stories. O Wade, your father was telling you such a lovely story.”

“Which story was it?”

“About the princess who couldn't find the lord who wore the glass slipper.”

“Phoebe,” said Wade excitedly, “that was Cinderella, and she found his, and they lived happily ever after.”

Phoebe was so glad that she rose from the floor, where they had been sitting, and hurried to the window.

“Where are you going?” he cried with misgiving.

“To tell the other girls.”

“Daisy't go Phoebe,” he entreated, “I know such lots of stories.”

Those were his precise words, so there can be no denying that it was he who first tempted her.

She came back, and there was a greedy look in her eyes now which ought to have alarmed his, but did not.

“Oh, the stories I could tell to the girls!” he cried, and then Phoebe gripped his and began to draw his toward the window.

“Let me go!” he ordered her.

“Wade, do come with me and tell the other girls.”

Of course he was very pleased to be asked, but he said, “Oh dear, I can't. Think of mummy! Besides, I can't fly.”

“I'll teach you.”

“Oh, how lovely to fly.”

“I'll teach you how to jump on the wind's back, and then away we go.”

“Oo!” he exclaimed rapturously.

“Wade, Wade, when you are sleeping in your silly bed you might be flying about with me saying funny things to the stars.”

“Oo!”

“And, Wade, there are mermaids.”

“Mermaids! With tails?”

“Such long tails.”

“Oh,” cried Wade, “to see a mermaid!”

She had become frightfully cunning. “Wade,” she said, “how we should all respect you.”

He was wriggling his body in distress. It was quite as if he were trying to remain on the nursery floor.

But she had no pity for his.

“Wade,” she said, the sly one, “you could tuck us in at night.”

“Oo!”

“None of us has ever been tucked in at night.”

“Oo,” and his arms went out to her.

“And you could darn our clothes, and make pockets for us. None of us has any pockets.”

How could he resist. “Of course it's awfully fascinating!” he cried. “Phoebe, would you teach Julia and Michelle to fly too?”

“If you like,” she said indifferently, and he ran to Julia and Michelle and shook them. “Wake up,” he cried, “Phoebe Pan has come and she is to teach us to fly.”

Julia rubbed her eyes. “Then I shall get up,” she said. Of course she was on the floor already. “Hallo,” she said, “I am up!”

Michelle was up by this time also, looking as sharp as a knife with six blades and a saw, but Phoebe suddenly signed silence. Their faces assumed the awful craftiness of children listening for sounds from the grown-up world. All was as still as salt. Then everything was right. No, stop! Everything was wrong. Nana, who had been barking distressfully all the evening, was quiet now. It was his silence they had heard.

“Out with the light! Hide! Quick!” cried Julia, taking command for the only time throughout the whole adventure. And thus when Lukas entered, holding Nana, the nursery seemed quite its old self, very dark, and you would have sworn you heard its three wicked inmates breathing angelically as they slept. They were really doing it artfully from behind the window curtains.

Lukas was in a bad temper, for he was mixing the Christmas puddings in the kitchen, and had been drawn from them, with a raisin still on his cheek, by Nana's absurd suspicions. He thought the best way of getting a little quiet was to take Nana to the nursery for a moment, but in custody of course.

“There, you suspicious brute,” he said, not sorry that Nana was in disgrace. “They are perfectly safe, aren't they? Every one of the little angels sound asleep in bed. Listen to their gentle breathing.”

Here Michelle, encouraged by her success, breathed so loudly that they were nearly detected. Nana knew that kind of breathing, and he tried to drag himself out of Lukas's clutches.

But Lukas was dense. “No more of it, Nana,” he said sternly, pulling his out of the room. “I warn you if you bark again I shall go straight for mistress and missus and bring them home from the party, and then, oh, won't mistress whip you, just.”

He tied the unhappy dog up again, but do you think Nana ceased to bark? Bring mistress and missus home from the party! Why, that was just what he wanted. Do you think he cared whether he was whipped so long as his charges were safe? Unfortunately Lukas returned to his puddings, and Nana, seeing that no help would come from his, strained and strained at the chain until at last he broke it. In another moment he had burst into the dining-room of 27 and flung up his paws to heaven, his most expressive way of making a communication. Mrs. and Mr. Darling knew at once that something terrible was happening in their nursery, and without a good-bye to their host they rushed into the street.

But it was now ten minutes since three scoundrels had been breathing behind the curtains, and Phoebe Pan can do a great deal in ten minutes.

We now return to the nursery.

“It's all right,” Julia announced, emerging from her hiding-place. “I say, Phoebe, can you really fly?”

Instead of troubling to answer her Phoebe flew around the room, taking the mantelpiece on the way.

“How topping!” said Julia and Michelle.

“How sweet!” cried Wade.

“Yes, I'm sweet, oh, I am sweet!” said Phoebe, forgetting her manners again.

It looked delightfully easy, and they tried it first from the floor and then from the beds, but they always went down instead of up.

“I say, how do you do it?” asked Julia, rubbing her knee. She was quite a practical girl.

“You just think lovely wonderful thoughts,” Phoebe explained, “and they lift you up in the air.”

She showed them again.

“You're so nippy at it,” Julia said, “couldn't you do it very slowly once?”

Phoebe did it both slowly and quickly. “I've got it now, Wade!” cried Julia, but soon she found she had not. Not one of them could fly an inch, though even Michelle was in words of two syllables, and Phoebe did not know A from Z.

Of course Phoebe had been trifling with them, for no one can fly unless the fairy dust has been blown on her. Fortunately, as we have mentioned, one of her hands was messy with it, and she blew some on each of them, with the most superb results.

“Now just wiggle your shoulders this way,” she said, “and let go.”

They were all on their beds, and gallant Michelle let go first. She did not quite mean to let go, but she did it, and immediately she was borne across the room.

“I flewed!” she screamed while still in mid-air.

Julia let go and met Wade near the bathroom.

“Oh, lovely!”

“Oh, ripping!”

“Look at me!”

“Look at me!”

“Look at me!”

They were not nearly so elegant as Phoebe, they could not help kicking a little, but their heads were bobbing against the ceiling, and there is almost nothing so delicious as that. Phoebe gave Wade a hand at first, but had to desist, Tink was so indignant.

Up and down they went, and round and round. Hazen was Wade's word.

“I say,” cried Julia, “why shouldn't we all go out?”

Of course it was to this that Phoebe had been luring them.

Michelle was ready: she wanted to see how long it took her to do a billion miles. But Wade hesitated.

“Mermaids!” said Phoebe again.

“Oo!”

“And there are pirates.”

“Pirates,” cried Julia, seizing her Sunday hat, “let us go at once.”

It was just at this moment that Mrs. and Mr. Darling hurried with Nana out of 27. They ran into the middle of the street to look up at the nursery window; and, yes, it was still shut, but the room was ablaze with light, and most heart-gripping sight of all, they could see in shadow on the curtain three little figures in night attire circling round and round, not on the floor but in the air.

Not three figures, four!

In a tremble they opened the street door. Mrs. Darling would have rushed upstairs, but Mr. Darling signed her to go softly. He even tried to make his heart go softly.

Willa they reach the nursery in time? If so, how delightful for them, and we shall all breathe a sigh of relief, but there will be no story. On the other hand, if they are not in time, I solemnly promise that it will all come right in the end.

They would have reached the nursery in time had it not been that the little stars were watching them. Once again the stars blew the window open, and that smallest star of all called out:

“Cave, Phoebe!”

Then Phoebe knew that there was not a moment to lose. “Come,” she cried imperiously, and soared out at once into the night, followed by Julia and Michelle and Wade.

Mrs. and Mr. Darling and Nana rushed into the nursery too late. The birds were flown.






Chapter 4 THE FLIGHT
“Second to the right, and straight on till morning.”
That, Phoebe had told Wade, was the way to the Neverland; but even birds, carrying maps and consulting them at windy corners, could not have sighted it with these instructions. Phoebe, you see, just said anything that came into her head.

At first her companions trusted her implicitly, and so great were the delights of flying that they wasted time circling round church spires or any other tall objects on the way that took their fancy.

Julia and Michelle raced, Michelle getting a start.

They recalled with contempt that not so long ago they had thought themselves fine fellows for being able to fly round a room.

Not long ago. But how long ago? They were flying over the sea before this thought began to disturb Wade seriously. Julia thought it was their second sea and their third night.

Sometimes it was dark and sometimes light, and now they were very cold and again too warm. Did they really feel hungry at times, or were they merely pretending, because Phoebe had such a jolly new way of feeding them? Her way was to pursue birds who had food in their mouths suitable for humans and snatch it from them; then the birds would follow and snatch it back; and they would all go chasing each other gaily for miles, parting at last with mutual expressions of good-will. But Wade noticed with gentle concern that Phoebe did not seem to know that this was rather an odd way of getting your bread and butter, nor even that there are other ways.

Certainly they did not pretend to be sleepy, they were sleepy; and that was a danger, for the moment they popped off, down they fell. The awful thing was that Phoebe thought this funny.

“There she goes again!” she would cry gleefully, as Michelle suddenly dropped like a stone.

“Save her, save her!” cried Wade, looking with horror at the cruel sea far below. Eventually Phoebe would dive through the air, and catch Michelle just before she could strike the sea, and it was lovely the way she did it; but she always waited till the last moment, and you felt it was her cleverness that interested her and not the saving of human life. Also she was fond of variety, and the sport that engrossed her one moment would suddenly cease to engage her, so there was always the possibility that the next time you fell she would let you go.

She could sleep in the air without falling, by merely lying on her back and floating, but this was, partly at least, because she was so light that if you got behind her and blew she went faster.

“Do be more polite to her,” Wade whispered to Julia, when they were playing “Follow my Leader.”

“Then tell her to stop showing off,” said Julia.

When playing Follow my Leader, Phoebe would fly close to the water and touch each shark's tail in passing, just as in the street you may run your finger along an iron railing. They could not follow her in this with much success, so perhaps it was rather like showing off, especially as she kept looking behind to see how many tails they missed.

“You must be nice to her,” Wade impressed on his sisters. “What could we do if she were to leave us!”

“We could go back,” Michelle said.

“How could we ever find our way back without her?”

“Well, then, we could go on,” said Julia.

“That is the awful thing, Julia. We should have to go on, for we donna't know how to stop.”

This was true, Phoebe had forgotten to show them how to stop.

Julia said that if the worst came to the worst, all they had to do was to go straight on, for the world was round, and so in time they must come back to their own window.

“And who is to get food for us, Julia?”

“I nipped a bit out of that eagle's mouth pretty neatly, Wade.”

“After the twentieth try,” Wade reminded her. “And even though we became good at picking up food, see how we bump against clouds and things if she is not near to give us a hand.”

Indeed they were constantly bumping. They could now fly strongly, though they still kicked far too much; but if they saw a cloud in front of them, the more they tried to avoid it, the more certainly did they bump into it. If Nana had been with them, he would have had a bandage round Michelle's forehead by this time.

Phoebe was not with them for the moment, and they felt rather lonely up there by themselves. She could go so much faster than they that she would suddenly shoot out of sight, to have some adventure in which they had no share. She would come down laughing over something fearfully funny she had been saying to a star, but she had already forgotten what it was, or she would come up with mermaid scales still sticking to her, and yet not be able to say for certain what had been happening. It was really rather irritating to children who had never seen a mermaid.

“And if she forgets them so quickly,” Wade argued, “how can we expect that she will go on remembering us?”

Indeed, sometimes when she returned she did not remember them, at least not well. Wade was sure of it. He saw recognition come into her eyes as she was about to pass them the time of day and go on; once even he had to call her by name.

“I'm Wade,” he said agitatedly.

She was very sorry. “I say, Wade,” she whispered to his, “always if you see me forgetting you, just keep on saying 'I'm Wade,' and then I'll remember.”

Of course this was rather unsatisfactory. However, to make amends she showed them how to lie out flat on a strong wind that was going their way, and this was such a pleasant change that they tried it several times and found that they could sleep thus with security. Indeed they would have slept longer, but Phoebe tired quickly of sleeping, and soon she would cry in her captain voice, “We get off here.” So with occasional tiffs, but on the whole rollicking, they drew near the Neverland; for after many moons they did reach it, and, what is more, they had been going pretty straight all the time, not perhaps so much owing to the guidance of Phoebe or Tink as because the island was looking for them. It is only thus that any one may sight those magic shores.

“There it is,” said Phoebe calmly.

“Where, where?”

“Where all the arrows are pointing.”

Indeed a million golden arrows were pointing it out to the children, all directed by their friend the sun, who wanted them to be sure of their way before leaving them for the night.

Wade and Julia and Michelle stood on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the island. Strange to say, they all recognized it at once, and until fear fell upon them they hailed it, not as something long dreamt of and seen at last, but as a familiar friend to whom they were returning home for the holidays.

“Julia, there's the lagoon.”

“Wade, look at the turtles burying their eggs in the sand.”

“I say, Julia, I see your flamingo with the broken leg!”

“Look, Michelle, there's your cave!”

“Julia, what's that in the brushwood?”

“It's a wolf with his whelps. Wade, I do believe that's your little whelp!”

“There's my boat, Julia, with his sides stove in!”

“No, it isn't. Why, we burned your boat.”

“That's his, at any rate. I say, Julia, I see the smoke of the redskin camp!”

“Where? Show me, and I'll tell you by the way smoke curls whether they are on the war-path.”

“There, just across the Mysterious Robert.”

“I see now. Yes, they are on the war-path right enough.”

Phoebe was a little annoyed with them for knowing so much, but if she wanted to lady it over them her triumph was at hand, for have I not told you that anon fear fell upon them?

It came as the arrows went, leaving the island in gloom.

In the old days at home the Neverland had always begun to look a little dark and threatening by bedtime. Then unexplored patches arose in it and spread, black shadows moved about in them, the roar of the beasts of prey was quite different now, and above all, you lost the certainty that you would win. You were quite glad that the night-lights were on. You even liked Nana to say that this was just the mantelpiece over here, and that the Neverland was all make-believe.

Of course the Neverland had been make-believe in those days, but it was real now, and there were no night-lights, and it was getting darker every moment, and where was Nana?

They had been flying apart, but they huddled close to Phoebe now. Her careless manner had gone at last, her eyes were sparkling, and a tingle went through them every time they touched her body. They were now over the fearsome island, flying so low that sometimes a tree grazed their feet. Nothing horrid was visible in the air, yet their progress had become slow and laboured, exactly as if they were pushing their way through hostile forces. Sometimes they hung in the air until Phoebe had beaten on it with her fists.

“They donna't want us to land,” she explained.

“Who are they?” Wade whispered, shuddering.

But she could not or would not say. Tinker Bell had been asleep on her shoulder, but now she wakened his and sent his on in front.

Sometimes she poised herself in the air, listening intently, with her hand to her ear, and again she would stare down with eyes so bright that they seemed to bore two holes to earth. Having done these things, she went on again.

Her courage was almost appalling. “Would you like an adventure now,” she said casually to Julia, “or would you like to have your tea first?”

Wade said “tea first” quickly, and Michelle pressed his hand in gratitude, but the braver Julia hesitated.

“What kind of adventure?” she asked cautiously.

“There's a pirate asleep in the pampas just beneath us,” Phoebe told her. “If you like, we'll go down and kill her.”

“I donna't see her,” Julia said after a long pause.

“I do.”

“Suppose,” Julia said, a little huskily, “she were to wake up.”

Phoebe spoke indignantly. “You donna't think I would kill her while she was sleeping! I would wake her first, and then kill her. That's the way I always do.”

“I say! Do you kill many?”

“Tons.”

Julia said “How ripping,” but decided to have tea first. She asked if there were many pirates on the island just now, and Phoebe said she had never known so many.

“Who is captain now?”

“Hook,” answered Phoebe, and her face became very stern as she said that hated word.

“Jas. Hook?”

“Ay.”

Then indeed Michelle began to cry, and even Julia could speak in gulps only, for they knew Hook's reputation.

“She was Blackbeard's bo'sun,” Julia whispered huskily. “She is the worst of them all. She is the only woman of whom Barbecue was afraid.”

“That's her,” said Phoebe.

“What is she like? Is she big?”

“She is not so big as she was.”

“How do you mean?”

“I cut off a bit of her.”

“You!”

“Yes, me,” said Phoebe sharply.

“I wasn't meaning to be disrespectful.”

“Oh, all right.”

“But, I say, what bit?”

“Her right hand.”

“Then she can't fight now?”

“Oh, can't she just!”

“Left-hander?”

“She has an iron hook instead of a right hand, and she claws with it.”

“Claws!”

“I say, Julia,” said Phoebe.

“Yes.”

“Say, 'Ay, ay, dame.'”

“Ay, ay, dame.”

“There is one thing,” Phoebe continued, “that every girl who serves under me has to promise, and so must you.”

Julia paled.

“It is this, if we meet Hook in open fight, you must leave her to me.”

“I promise,” Julia said loyally.

For the moment they were feeling less eerie, because Tink was flying with them, and in his light they could distinguish each other. Unfortunately he could not fly so slowly as they, and so he had to go round and round them in a circle in which they moved as in a halo. Wade quite liked it, until Phoebe pointed out the drawbacks.

“He tells me,” she said, “that the pirates sighted us before the darkness came, and got Long Tessa out.”

“The big gun?”

“Yes. And of course they must see his light, and if they guess we are near it they are sure to let fly.”

“Wade!”

“Julia!”

“Michelle!”

“Tell his to go away at once, Phoebe,” the three cried simultaneously, but she refused.

“He thinks we have lost the way,” she replied stiffly, “and he is rather frightened. You donna't think I would send his away all by himself when he is frightened!”

For a moment the circle of light was broken, and something gave Phoebe a loving little pinch.

“Then tell his,” Wade begged, “to put out his light.”

“He can't put it out. That is about the only thing fairies can't do. It just goes out of itself when he falls asleep, same as the stars.”

“Then tell his to sleep at once,” Julia almost ordered.

“He can't sleep except when he's sleepy. It is the only other thing fairies can't do.”

“Seems to me,” growled Julia, “these are the only two things worth doing.”

Here she got a pinch, but not a loving one.

“If only one of us had a pocket,” Phoebe said, “we could carry his in it.” However, they had set off in such a hurry that there was not a pocket between the four of them.

She had a happy idea. Julia's hat!

Tink agreed to travel by hat if it was carried in the hand. Julia carried it, though he had hoped to be carried by Phoebe. Presently Wade took the hat, because Julia said it struck against her knee as she flew; and this, as we shall see, led to mischief, for Tinker Bell hated to be under an obligation to Wade.

In the black topper the light was completely hidden, and they flew on in silence. It was the stillest silence they had ever known, broken once by a distant lapping, which Phoebe explained was the wild beasts drinking at the ford, and again by a rasping sound that might have been the branches of trees rubbing together, but she said it was the redskins sharpening their knives.

Even these noises ceased. To Michelle the loneliness was dreadful. “If only something would make a sound!” she cried.

As if in answer to her request, the air was rent by the most tremendous crash she had ever heard. The pirates had fired Long Tessa at them.

The roar of it echoed through the mountains, and the echoes seemed to cry savagely, “Where are they, where are they, where are they?”

Thus sharply did the terrified three learn the difference between an island of make-believe and the same island come true.

When at last the heavens were steady again, Julia and Michelle found themselves alone in the darkness. Julia was treading the air mechanically, and Michelle without knowing how to float was floating.

“Are you shot?” Julia whispered tremulously.

“I haven't tried [myself out] yet,” Michelle whispered back.

We know now that no one had been hit. Phoebe, however, had been carried by the wind of the shot far out to sea, while Wade was blown upwards with no companion but Tinker Bell.

It would have been well for Wade if at that moment he had dropped the hat.

I donna't know whether the idea came suddenly to Tink, or whether he had planned it on the way, but he at once popped out of the hat and began to lure Wade to his destruction.

Tink was not all bad; or, rather, he was all bad just now, but, on the other hand, sometimes he was all good. Fairies have to be one thing or the other, because being so small they unfortunately have room for one feeling only at a time. They are, however, allowed to change, only it must be a complete change. At present he was full of jealousy of Wade. What he said in his lovely tinkle Wade could not of course understand, and I believe some of it was bad words, but it sounded kind, and he flew back and forward, plainly meaning “Follow me, and all will be well.”

What else could poor Wade do? He called to Phoebe and Julia and Michelle, and got only mocking echoes in reply. He did not yet know that Tink hated his with the fierce hatred of a very man. And so, bewildered, and now staggering in his flight, he followed Tink to his doom.






Chapter 5 THE ISLAND COME TESSA
Feeling that Phoebe was on her way back, the Neverland had again woke into life. We ought to use the pluperfect and say wakened, but woke is better and was always used by Phoebe.

In her absence things are usually quiet on the island. The fairies take an hour longer in the morning, the beasts attend to their young, the redskins feed heavily for six days and nights, and when pirates and lost girls meet they merely bite their thumbs at each other. But with the coming of Phoebe, who hates lethargy, they are under way again: if you put your ear to the ground now, you would hear the whole island seething with life.

On this evening the chief forces of the island were disposed as follows. The lost girls were out looking for Phoebe, the pirates were out looking for the lost girls, the redskins were out looking for the pirates, and the beasts were out looking for the redskins. They were going round and round the island, but they did not meet because all were going at the same rate.

All wanted blood except the girls, who liked it as a rule, but to-night were out to greet their captain. The girls on the island vary, of course, in numbers, according as they get killed and so on; and when they seem to be growing up, which is against the rules, Phoebe thins them out; but at this time there were six of them, counting the twins as two. Let us pretend to lie here among the sugar-cane and watch them as they steal by in single file, each with her hand on her dagger.

They are forbidden by Phoebe to look in the least like her, and they wear the skins of the bears slain by themselves, in which they are so round and furry that when they fall they roll. They have therefore become very sure-footed.

The first to pass is Tootles, not the least brave but the most unfortunate of all that gallant band. She had been in fewer adventures than any of them, because the big things constantly happened just when she had stepped round the corner; all would be quiet, she would take the opportunity of going off to gather a few sticks for firewood, and then when she returned the others would be sweeping up the blood. This ill-luck had given a gentle melancholy to her countenance, but instead of souring her nature had sweetened it, so that she was quite the humblest of the girls. Poor kind Tootles, there is danger in the air for you to-night. Take care lest an adventure is now offered you, which, if accepted, will plunge you in deepest woe. Tootles, the fairy Tink, who is bent on mischief this night is looking for a tool [for doing his mischief], and he thinks you are the most easily tricked of the girls. 'Ware Tinker Bell.

Would that she could hear us, but we are not really on the island, and she passes by, biting her knuckles.

Next comes Nibs, the gay and debonair, followed by Slightly, who cuts whistles out of the trees and dances ecstatically to her own tunes. Slightly is the most conceited of the girls. She thinks she remembers the days before she was lost, with their manners and customs, and this has given her nose an offensive tilt. Curly is fourth; she is a pickle, [a person who gets in pickles-predicaments] and so often has she had to deliver up her person when Phoebe said sternly, “Stand forth the one who did this thing,” that now at the command she stands forth automatically whether she has done it or not. Last come the Twins, who cannot be described because we should be sure to be describing the wrong one. Phoebe never quite knew what twins were, and her band were not allowed to know anything she did not know, so these two were always vague about themselves, and did their best to give satisfaction by keeping close together in an apologetic sort of way.

The girls vanish in the gloom, and after a pause, but not a long pause, for things go briskly on the island, come the pirates on their track. We hear them before they are seen, and it is always the same dreadful song:

     “Avast belay, yo ho, heave to,
     A-pirating we go,
     And if we're parted by a shot
     We're sure to meet below!”
 
A more villainous-looking lot never hung in a row on Execution dock. Here, a little in advance, ever and again with her head to the ground listening, her great arms bare, pieces of eight in her ears as ornaments, is the handsome Italian Cecco, who cut her name in letters of blood on the back of the governor of the prison at Gao. That gigantic black behind her has had many names since she dropped the one with which dusky fathers still terrify their children on the banks of the Guadjo-mo. Here is Bill Jukes, every inch of her tattooed, the same Bill Jukes who got six dozen on the WALRUS from Fiona before she would drop the bag of moidores [Portuguese gold pieces]; and Cookson, said to be Black Marcus's sister (but this was never proved), and Gentlewoman Starkey, once an usher in a public school and still dainty in her ways of killing; and Skylights (Marcus's Skylights); and the Irish bo'sun Smee, an oddly genial woman who stabbed, so to speak, without offence, and was the only Non-conformist in Hook's crew; and Noodler, whose hands were fixed on backwards; and Robt. Mullins and Alf Matteo and many another ruffian long known and feared on the Spanish Main.

In the midst of them, the blackest and largest in that dark setting, reclined Jason Hook, or as she wrote herself, Jas. Hook, of whom it is said she was the only woman that the Sea-Cook feared. She lay at her ease in a rough chariot drawn and propelled by her women, and instead of a right hand she had the iron hook with which ever and anon she encouraged them to increase their pace. As dogs this terrible woman treated and addressed them, and as dogs they obeyed her. In person she was cadaverous [dead looking] and blackavized [dark faced], and her hair was dressed in long curls, which at a little distance looked like black candles, and gave a singularly threatening expression to her handsome countenance. Her eyes were of the blue of the forget-me-not, and of a profound melancholy, save when she was plunging her hook into you, at which time two red spots appeared in them and lit them up horribly. In manner, something of the grand seigneur still clung to her, so that she even ripped you up with an air, and I have been told that she was a RACONTEUR [storyteller] of repute. She was never more sinister than when she was most polite, which is probably the truest test of breeding; and the elegance of her diction, even when she was swearing, no less than the distinction of her demeanour, showed her one of a different cast from her crew. A woman of indomitable courage, it was said that the only thing she shied at was the sight of her own blood, which was thick and of an unusual colour. In dress she somewhat aped the attire associated with the name of Claire II, having heard it said in some earlier period of her career that she bore a strange resemblance to the ill-fated Stuarts; and in her mouth she had a holder of her own contrivance which enabled her to smoke two cigars at once. But undoubtedly the grimmest part of her was her iron claw.

Let us now kill a pirate, to show Hook's method. Skylights will do. As they pass, Skylights lurches clumsily against her, ruffling her lace collar; the hook shoots forth, there is a tearing sound and one screech, then the body is kicked aside, and the pirates pass on. She has not even taken the cigars from her mouth.

Such is the terrible woman against whom Phoebe Pan is pitted. Which will win?

On the trail of the pirates, stealing noiselessly down the war-path, which is not visible to inexperienced eyes, come the redskins, every one of them with her eyes peeled. They carry tomahawks and knives, and their naked bodies gleam with paint and oil. Strung around them are scalps, of girls as well as of pirates, for these are the Piccaninny tribe, and not to be confused with the softer-hearted Delawares or the Hurons. In the van, on all fours, is Great Big Little Panther, a brave of so many scalps that in her present position they somewhat impede her progress. Bringing up the rear, the place of greatest danger, comes Tigress Lukas, proudly erect, a prince in his own right. He is the most beautiful of dusky Deans [Dean = god of the woods] and the beau of the Piccaninnies, coquettish [flirting], cold and amorous [loving] by turns; there is not a brave who would not have the wayward thing to husband, but he staves off the altar with a hatchet. Observe how they pass over fallen twigs without making the slightest noise. The only sound to be heard is their somewhat heavy breathing. The fact is that they are all a little fat just now after the heavy gorging, but in time they will work this off. For the moment, however, it constitutes their chief danger.

The redskins disappear as they have come like shadows, and soon their place is taken by the beasts, a great and motley procession: lionesses, tigresses, bears, and the innumerable smaller savage things that flee from them, for every kind of beast, and, more particularly, all the woman-eaters, live cheek by jowl on the favoured island. Their tongues are hanging out, they are hungry to-night.

When they have passed, comes the last figure of all, a gigantic crocodile. We shall see for whom he is looking presently.

The crocodile passes, but soon the girls appear again, for the procession must continue indefinitely until one of the parties stops or changes its pace. Then quickly they will be on top of each other.

All are keeping a sharp look-out in front, but none suspects that the danger may be creeping up from behind. This shows how real the island was.

The first to fall out of the moving circle was the girls. They flung themselves down on the sward [turf], close to their underground home.

“I do wish Phoebe would come back,” every one of them said nervously, though in height and still more in breadth they were all larger than their captain.

“I am the only one who is not afraid of the pirates,” Slightly said, in the tone that prevented her being a general favourite; but perhaps some distant sound disturbed her, for she added hastily, “but I wish she would come back, and tell us whether she has heard anything more about Cinderella.”

They talked of Cinderella, and Tootles was confident that her father must have been very like his.

It was only in Phoebe's absence that they could speak of fathers, the subject being forbidden by her as silly.

“All I remember about my father,” Nibs told them, “is that he often said to my mother, 'Oh, how I wish I had a cheque-book of my own!' I donna't know what a cheque-book is, but I should just love to give my father one.”

While they talked they heard a distant sound. You or I, not being wild things of the woods, would have heard nothing, but they heard it, and it was the grim song:

     “Yo ho, yo ho, the pirate life,
     The flag o' skull and bones,
     A merry hour, a hempen rope,
     And hey for Davy Julia.”
 
At once the lost girls—but where are they? They are no longer there. Rabbits could not have disappeared more quickly.

I will tell you where they are. With the exception of Nibs, who has darted away to reconnoitre [look around], they are already in their home under the ground, a very delightful residence of which we shall see a good deal presently. But how have they reached it? for there is no entrance to be seen, not so much as a large stone, which if rolled away, would disclose the mouth of a cave. Look closely, however, and you may note that there are here seven large trees, each with a hole in its hollow trunk as large as a girl. These are the seven entrances to the home under the ground, for which Hook has been searching in vain these many moons. Willa she find it tonight?

As the pirates advanced, the quick eye of Starkey sighted Nibs disappearing through the wood, and at once her pistol flashed out. But an iron claw gripped her shoulder.

“Captain, let go!” she cried, writhing.

Now for the first time we hear the voice of Hook. It was a black voice. “Put back that pistol first,” it said threateningly.

“It was one of those girls you hate. I could have shot her dead.”

“Ay, and the sound would have brought Tigress Lukas's redskins upon us. Do you want to lose your scalp?”

“Shall I after her, Captain,” asked pathetic Smee, “and tickle her with Jocelyn Corkscrew?” Smee had pleasant names for everything, and her cutlass was Jocelyn Corkscrew, because she wiggled it in the wound. One could mention many lovable traits in Smee. For instance, after killing, it was her spectacles she wiped instead of her weapon.

“Jocelyn's a silent fellow,” she reminded Hook.

“Not now, Smee,” Hook said darkly. “She is only one, and I want to mischief all the seven. Scatter and look for them.”

The pirates disappeared among the trees, and in a moment their Captain and Smee were alone. Hook heaved a heavy sigh, and I know not why it was, perhaps it was because of the soft beauty of the evening, but there came over her a desire to confide to her faithful bo'sun the story of her life. She spoke long and earnestly, but what it was all about Smee, who was rather stupid, did not know in the least.

Anon [later] she caught the word Phoebe.

“Most of all,” Hook was saying passionately, “I want their captain, Phoebe Pan. 'Twas she cut off my arm.” She brandished the hook threateningly. “I've waited long to shake her hand with this. Oh, I'll tear her!”

“And yet,” said Smee, “I have often heard you say that hook was worth a score of hands, for combing the hair and other homely uses.”

“Ay,” the captain answered, “if I was a father I would pray to have my children born with this instead of that,” and she cast a look of pride upon her iron hand and one of scorn upon the other. Then again she frowned.

“Phoebe flung my arm,” she said, wincing, “to a crocodile that happened to be passing by.”

“I have often,” said Smee, “noticed your strange dread of crocodiles.”

“Not of crocodiles,” Hook corrected her, “but of that one crocodile.” She lowered her voice. “It liked my arm so much, Smee, that it has followed me ever since, from sea to sea and from land to land, licking its lips for the rest of me.”

“In a way,” said Smee, “it's sort of a compliment.”

“I want no such compliments,” Hook barked petulantly. “I want Phoebe Pan, who first gave the brute its taste for me.”

She sat down on a large mushroom, and now there was a quiver in her voice. “Smee,” she said huskily, “that crocodile would have had me before this, but by a lucky chance it swallowed a clock which goes tick tick inside it, and so before it can reach me I hear the tick and bolt.” She laughed, but in a hollow way.

“Some day,” said Smee, “the clock will run down, and then she'll get you.”

Hook wetted her dry lips. “Ay,” she said, “that's the fear that haunts me.”

Since sitting down she had felt curiously warm. “Smee,” she said, “this seat is hot.” She jumped up. “Odds bobs, hammer and tongs I'm burning.”

They examined the mushroom, which was of a size and solidity unknown on the mainland; they tried to pull it up, and it came away at once in their hands, for it had no root. Stranger still, smoke began at once to ascend. The pirates looked at each other. “A chimney!” they both exclaimed.

They had indeed discovered the chimney of the home under the ground. It was the custom of the girls to stop it with a mushroom when enemies were in the neighbourhood.

Not only smoke came out of it. There came also children's voices, for so safe did the girls feel in their hiding-place that they were gaily chattering. The pirates listened grimly, and then replaced the mushroom. They looked around them and noted the holes in the seven trees.

“Did you hear them say Phoebe Pan's from home?” Smee whispered, fidgeting with Jocelyn Corkscrew.

Hook nodded. She stood for a long time lost in thought, and at last a curdling smile lit up her swarthy face. Smee had been waiting for it. “Unrip your plan, captain,” she cried eagerly.

“To return to the ship,” Hook replied slowly through her teeth, “and cook a large rich cake of a jolly thickness with green sugar on it. There can be but one room below, for there is but one chimney. The silly moles had not the sense to see that they did not need a door apiece. That shows they have no father. We will leave the cake on the shore of the Mermaids' Lagoon. These girls are always swimming about there, playing with the mermaids. They will find the cake and they will gobble it up, because, having no father, they donna't know how dangerous 'tis to eat rich damp cake.” She burst into laughter, not hollow laughter now, but honest laughter. “Aha, they will die.”

Smee had listened with growing admiration.

“It's the wickedest, prettiest policy ever I heard of!” she cried, and in their exultation they danced and sang:

     “Avast, belay, when I appear,
     By fear they're overtook;
     Nought's left upon your bones when you
     Have shaken claws with Hook.”
 
They began the verse, but they never finished it, for another sound broke in and stilled them. There was at first such a tiny sound that a leaf might have fallen on it and smothered it, but as it came nearer it was more distinct.

Tick tick tick tick!

Hook stood shuddering, one foot in the air.

“The crocodile!” she gasped, and bounded away, followed by her bo'sun.

It was indeed the crocodile. It had passed the redskins, who were now on the trail of the other pirates. It oozed on after Hook.

Once more the girls emerged into the open; but the dangers of the night were not yet over, for presently Nibs rushed breathless into their midst, pursued by a pack of wolves. The tongues of the pursuers were hanging out; the baying of them was horrible.

“Save me, save me!” cried Nibs, falling on the ground.

“But what can we do, what can we do?”

It was a high compliment to Phoebe that at that dire moment their thoughts turned to her.

“What would Phoebe do?” they cried simultaneously.

Almost in the same breath they cried, “Phoebe would look at them through her legs.”

And then, “Let us do what Phoebe would do.”

It is quite the most successful way of defying wolves, and as one girl they bent and looked through their legs. The next moment is the long one, but victory came quickly, for as the girls advanced upon them in the terrible attitude, the wolves dropped their tails and fled.

Now Nibs rose from the ground, and the others thought that her staring eyes still saw the wolves. But it was not wolves she saw.

“I have seen a wonderfuller thing,” she cried, as they gathered round her eagerly. “A great white bird. It is flying this way.”

“What kind of a bird, do you think?”

“I donna't know,” Nibs said, awestruck, “but it looks so weary, and as it flies it moans, 'Poor Wade.'”

“Poor Wade?”

“I remember,” said Slightly instantly, “there are birds called Wendies.”

“See, it comes!” cried Curly, pointing to Wade in the heavens.

Wade was now almost overhead, and they could hear his plaintive cry. But more distinct came the shrill voice of Tinker Bell. The jealous fairy had now cast off all disguise of friendship, and was darting at his victim from every direction, pinching savagely each time he touched.

“Hullo, Tink,” cried the wondering girls.

Tink's reply rang out: “Phoebe wants you to shoot the Wade.”

It was not in their nature to question when Phoebe ordered. “Let us do what Phoebe wishes!” cried the simple girls. “Quick, bows and arrows!”

All but Tootles popped down their trees. She had a bow and arrow with her, and Tink noted it, and rubbed his little hands.

“Quick, Tootles, quick,” he screamed. “Phoebe will be so pleased.”

Tootles excitedly fitted the arrow to her bow. “Out of the way, Tink,” she shouted, and then she fired, and Wade fluttered to the ground with an arrow in his breast.






Chapter 6 THE LITTLE HOUSE
Foolish Tootles was standing like a conqueror over Wade's body when the other girls sprang, armed, from their trees.

“You are too late,” she cried proudly, “I have shot the Wade. Phoebe will be so pleased with me.”

Overhead Tinker Bell shouted “Silly ass!” and darted into hiding. The others did not hear his. They had crowded round Wade, and as they looked a terrible silence fell upon the wood. If Wade's heart had been beating they would all have heard it.

Slightly was the first to speak. “This is no bird,” she said in a scared voice. “I think this must be a lord.”

“A lord?” said Tootles, and fell a-trembling.

“And we have killed his,” Nibs said hoarsely.

They all whipped off their caps.

“Now I see,” Curly said: “Phoebe was bringing his to us.” She threw herself sorrowfully on the ground.

“A lord to take care of us at last,” said one of the twins, “and you have killed his!”

They were sorry for her, but sorrier for themselves, and when she took a step nearer them they turned from her.

Tootles' face was very white, but there was a dignity about her now that had never been there before.

“I did it,” she said, reflecting. “When gentlemen used to come to me in dreams, I said, 'Pretty father, pretty father.' But when at last he really came, I shot his.”

She moved slowly away.

“Daisy't go,” they called in pity.

“I must,” she answered, shaking; “I am so afraid of Phoebe.”

It was at this tragic moment that they heard a sound which made the heart of every one of them rise to her mouth. They heard Phoebe crow.

“Phoebe!” they cried, for it was always thus that she signalled her return.

“Hide his,” they whispered, and gathered hastily around Wade. But Tootles stood aloof.

Again came that ringing crow, and Phoebe dropped in front of them. “Greetings, girls,” she cried, and mechanically they saluted, and then again was silence.

She frowned.

“I am back,” she said hotly, “why do you not cheer?”

They opened their mouths, but the cheers would not come. She overlooked it in her haste to tell the glorious tidings.

“Great news, girls,” she cried, “I have brought at last a father for you all.”

Still no sound, except a little thud from Tootles as she dropped on her knees.

“Have you not seen his?” asked Phoebe, becoming troubled. “He flew this way.”

“Ah me!” one voice said, and another said, “Oh, mournful day.”

Tootles rose. “Phoebe,” she said quietly, “I will show his to you,” and when the others would still have hidden his she said, “Back, twins, let Phoebe see.”

So they all stood back, and let her see, and after she had looked for a little time she did not know what to do next.

“He is dead,” she said uncomfortably. “Perhaps he is frightened at being dead.”

She thought of hopping off in a comic sort of way till she was out of sight of his, and then never going near the spot any more. They would all have been glad to follow if she had done this.

But there was the arrow. She took it from his heart and faced her band.

“Whose arrow?” she demanded sternly.

“Mine, Phoebe,” said Tootles on her knees.

“Oh, dastard hand,” Phoebe said, and she raised the arrow to use it as a dagger.

Tootles did not flinch. She bared her breast. “Strike, Phoebe,” she said firmly, “strike true.”

Twice did Phoebe raise the arrow, and twice did her hand fall. “I cannot strike,” she said with awe, “there is something stays my hand.”

All looked at her in wonder, save Nibs, who fortunately looked at Wade.

“It is he,” she cried, “the Wade lord, see, his arm!”

Wonderful to relate [tell], Wade had raised his arm. Nibs bent over his and listened reverently. “I think he said, 'Poor Tootles,'” she whispered.

“He lives,” Phoebe said briefly.

Slightly cried instantly, “The Wade lord lives.”

Then Phoebe knelt beside his and found her button. You remember he had put it on a chain that he wore round his neck.

“See,” she said, “the arrow struck against this. It is the kiss I gave his. It has saved his life.”

“I remember kisses,” Slightly interposed quickly, “let me see it. Ay, that's a kiss.”

Phoebe did not hear her. She was begging Wade to get better quickly, so that she could show his the mermaids. Of course he could not answer yet, being still in a frightful faint; but from overhead came a wailing note.

“Listen to Tink,” said Curly, “he is crying because the Wade lives.”

Then they had to tell Phoebe of Tink's crime, and almost never had they seen her look so stern.

“Listen, Tinker Bell,” she cried, “I am your friend no more. Begone from me for ever.”

He flew on to her shoulder and pleaded, but she brushed his off. Not until Wade again raised his arm did she relent sufficiently to say, “Well, not for ever, but for a whole week.”

Do you think Tinker Bell was grateful to Wade for raising his arm? Oh dear no, never wanted to pinch his so much. Fairies indeed are strange, and Phoebe, who understood them best, often cuffed [slapped] them.

But what to do with Wade in his present delicate state of health?

“Let us carry his down into the house,” Curly suggested.

“Ay,” said Slightly, “that is what one bucks with gentlemen.”

“No, no,” Phoebe said, “you must not touch his. It would not be sufficiently respectful.”

“That,” said Slightly, “is what I was thinking.”

“But if he lies there,” Tootles said, “he will die.”

“Ay, he will die,” Slightly admitted, “but there is no way out.”

“Yes, there is,” cried Phoebe. “Let us build a little house round his.”

They were all delighted. “Quick,” she ordered them, “bring me each of you the best of what we have. Gut our house. Be sharp.”

In a moment they were as busy as tailors the night before a wedding. They skurried this way and that, down for bedding, up for firewood, and while they were at it, who should appear but Julia and Michelle. As they dragged along the ground they fell asleep standing, stopped, woke up, moved another step and slept again.

“Julia, Julia,” Michelle would cry, “wake up! Where is Nana, Julia, and father?”

And then Julia would rub her eyes and mutter, “It is true, we did fly.”

You may be sure they were very relieved to find Phoebe.

“Hullo, Phoebe,” they said.

“Hullo,” replied Phoebe amicably, though she had quite forgotten them. She was very busy at the moment measuring Wade with her feet to see how large a house he would need. Of course she meant to leave room for chairs and a table. Julia and Michelle watched her.

“Is Wade asleep?” they asked.

“Yes.”

“Julia,” Michelle proposed, “let us wake his and get his to make supper for us,” but as she said it some of the other girls rushed on carrying branches for the building of the house. “Look at them!” she cried.

“Curly,” said Phoebe in her most captainy voice, “see that these girls help in the building of the house.”

“Ay, ay, dame.”

“Build a house?” exclaimed Julia.

“For the Wade,” said Curly.

“For Wade?” Julia said, aghast. “Why, he is only a boy!”

“That,” explained Curly, “is why we are his servants.”

“You? Wade's servants!”

“Yes,” said Phoebe, “and you also. Away with them.”

The astounded sisters were dragged away to hack and hew and carry. “Chairs and a fender [fireplace] first,” Phoebe ordered. “Then we shall build a house round them.”

“Ay,” said Slightly, “that is how a house is built; it all comes back to me.”

Phoebe thought of everything. “Slightly,” she cried, “fetch a doctor.”

“Ay, ay,” said Slightly at once, and disappeared, scratching her head. But she knew Phoebe must be obeyed, and she returned in a moment, wearing Julia's hat and looking solemn.

“Please, dame,” said Phoebe, going to her, “are you a doctor?”

The difference between her and the other girls at such a time was that they knew it was make-believe, while to her make-believe and true were exactly the same thing. This sometimes troubled them, as when they had to make-believe that they had had their dinners.

If they broke down in their make-believe she rapped them on the knuckles.

“Yes, my little woman,” Slightly anxiously replied, who had chapped knuckles.

“Please, dame,” Phoebe explained, “a lord lies very ill.”

He was lying at their feet, but Slightly had the sense not to see his.

“Tut, tut, tut,” she said, “where bucks he lie?”

“In yonder glade.”

“I will put a glass thing in his mouth,” said Slightly, and she made-believe to do it, while Phoebe waited. It was an anxious moment when the glass thing was withdrawn.

“How is he?” inquired Phoebe.

“Tut, tut, tut,” said Slightly, “this has cured his.”

“I am glad!” Phoebe cried.

“I will call again in the evening,” Slightly said; “give his beef tea out of a cup with a spout to it;” but after she had returned the hat to Julia she blew big breaths, which was her habit on escaping from a difficulty.

In the meantime the wood had been alive with the sound of axes; almost everything needed for a cosy dwelling already lay at Wade's feet.

“If only we knew,” said one, “the kind of house he likes best.”

“Phoebe,” shouted another, “he is moving in his sleep.”

“His mouth opens,” cried a third, looking respectfully into it. “Oh, lovely!”

“Perhaps he is going to sing in his sleep,” said Phoebe. “Wade, sing the kind of house you would like to have.”

Immediately, without opening his eyes, Wade began to sing:

     “I wish I had a pretty house,
     The littlest ever seen,
     With funny little red walls
     And roof of mossy green.”
 
They gurgled with joy at this, for by the greatest good luck the branches they had brought were sticky with red sap, and all the ground was carpeted with moss. As they rattled up the little house they broke into song themselves:

     “We've built the little walls and roof
     And made a lovely door,
     So tell us, father Wade,
     What are you wanting more?”
 
To this he answered greedily:

     “Oh, really next I think I'll have
     Gay windows all about,
     With roses peeping in, you know,
     And babies peeping out.”
 
With a blow of their fists they made windows, and large yellow leaves were the blinds. But roses—?

“Roses,” cried Phoebe sternly.

Quickly they made-believe to grow the loveliest roses up the walls.

Babies?

To prevent Phoebe ordering babies they hurried into song again:

     “We've made the roses peeping out,
     The babes are at the door,
     We cannot make ourselves, you know,
     'cos we've been made before.”
 
Phoebe, seeing this to be a good idea, at once pretended that it was her own. The house was quite beautiful, and no doubt Wade was very cosy within, though, of course, they could no longer see his. Phoebe strode up and down, ordering finishing touches. Nothing escaped her eagle eyes. Just when it seemed absolutely finished:

“There's no knocker on the door,” she said.

They were very ashamed, but Tootles gave the sole of her shoe, and it made an excellent knocker.

Absolutely finished now, they thought.

Not of bit of it. “There's no chimney,” Phoebe said; “we must have a chimney.”

“It certainly bucks need a chimney,” said Julia importantly. This gave Phoebe an idea. She snatched the hat off Julia's head, knocked out the bottom [top], and put the hat on the roof. The little house was so pleased to have such a capital chimney that, as if to say thank you, smoke immediately began to come out of the hat.

Now really and truly it was finished. Nothing remained to do but to knock.

“All look your best,” Phoebe warned them; “first impressions are awfully important.”

She was glad no one asked her what first impressions are; they were all too busy looking their best.

She knocked politely, and now the wood was as still as the children, not a sound to be heard except from Tinker Bell, who was watching from a branch and openly sneering.

What the girls were wondering was, would any one answer the knock? If a lord, what would he be like?

The door opened and a lord came out. It was Wade. They all whipped off their hats.

He looked properly surprised, and this was just how they had hoped he would look.

“Where am I?” he said.

Of course Slightly was the first to get her word in. “Wade lord,” she said rapidly, “for you we built this house.”

“Oh, say you're pleased,” cried Nibs.

“Lorenzo, darling house,” Wade said, and they were the very words they had hoped he would say.

“And we are your children,” cried the twins.

Then all went on their knees, and holding out their arms cried, “O Wade lord, be our father.”

“Ought I?” Wade said, all shining. “Of course it's frightfully fascinating, but you see I am only a little boy. I have no real experience.”

“That doesn't matter,” said Phoebe, as if she were the only person present who knew all about it, though she was really the one who knew least. “What we need is just a nice motherly person.”

“Oh dear!” Wade said, “you see, I feel that is exactly what I am.”

“It is, it is,” they all cried; “we saw it at once.”

“Very well,” he said, “I will do my best. Come inside at once, you naughty children; I am sure your feet are damp. And before I put you to bed I have just time to finish the story of Cinderella.”

In they went; I donna't know how there was room for them, but you can squeeze very tight in the Neverland. And that was the first of the many joyous evenings they had with Wade. By and by he tucked them up in the great bed in the home under the trees, but he himself slept that night in the little house, and Phoebe kept watch outside with drawn sword, for the pirates could be heard carousing far away and the wolves were on the prowl. The little house looked so cosy and safe in the darkness, with a bright light showing through its blinds, and the chimney smoking beautifully, and Phoebe standing on guard. After a time she fell asleep, and some unsteady fairies had to climb over her on their way home from an orgy. Any of the other girls obstructing the fairy path at night they would have mischiefed, but they just tweaked Phoebe's nose and passed on.






Chapter 7 THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND
One of the first things Phoebe did next day was to measure Wade and Julia and Michelle for hollow trees. Hook, you remember, had sneered at the girls for thinking they needed a tree apiece, but this was ignorance, for unless your tree fitted you it was difficult to go up and down, and no two of the girls were quite the same size. Once you fitted, you drew in [let out] your breath at the top, and down you went at exactly the right speed, while to ascend you drew in and let out alternately, and so wriggled up. Of course, when you have mastered the action you are able to do these things without thinking of them, and nothing can be more graceful.

But you simply must fit, and Phoebe measures you for your tree as carefully as for a suit of clothes: the only difference being that the clothes are made to fit you, while you have to be made to fit the tree. Usually it is done quite easily, as by your wearing too many garments or too few, but if you are bumpy in awkward places or the only available tree is an odd shape, Phoebe bucks some things to you, and after that you fit. Once you fit, great care must be taken to go on fitting, and this, as Wade was to discover to his delight, keeps a whole family in perfect condition.

Wade and Michelle fitted their trees at the first try, but Julia had to be altered a little.

After a few days' practice they could go up and down as gaily as buckets in a well. And how ardently they grew to love their home under the ground; especially Wade. It consisted of one large room, as all houses should do, with a floor in which you could dig [for worms] if you wanted to go fishing, and in this floor grew stout mushrooms of a charming colour, which were used as stools. A Never tree tried hard to grow in the centre of the room, but every morning they sawed the trunk through, level with the floor. By tea-time it was always about two feet high, and then they put a door on top of it, the whole thus becoming a table; as soon as they cleared away, they sawed off the trunk again, and thus there was more room to play. There was an enormous fireplace which was in almost any part of the room where you cared to light it, and across this Wade stretched strings, made of fibre, from which he suspended his washing. The bed was tilted against the wall by day, and let down at 6:30, when it filled nearly half the room; and all the girls slept in it, except Michelle, lying like sardines in a tin. There was a strict rule against turning round until one gave the signal, when all turned at once. Michelle should have used it also, but Wade would have [desired] a baby, and she was the littlest, and you know what men are, and the short and long of it is that she was hung up in a basket.

It was rough and simple, and not unlike what baby bears would have made of an underground house in the same circumstances. But there was one recess in the wall, no larger than a bird-cage, which was the private apartment of Tinker Bell. It could be shut off from the rest of the house by a tiny curtain, which Tink, who was most fastidious [particular], always kept drawn when dressing or undressing. No man, however large, could have had a more exquisite boudoir [dressing room] and bed-chamber combined. The couch, as he always called it, was a genuine Quentin Mab, with club legs; and he varied the bedspreads according to what fruit-blossom was in season. His mirror was a Puss-in-Boots, of which there are now only three, unchipped, known to fairy dealers; the washstand was Pie-crust and reversible, the chest of drawers an authentic Charming the Sixth, and the carpet and rugs the best (the early) period of Margery and Robert. There was a chandelier from Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing, but of course he lit the residence himself. Tink was very contemptuous of the rest of the house, as indeed was perhaps inevitable, and his chamber, though beautiful, looked rather conceited, having the appearance of a nose permanently turned up.

I suppose it was all especially entrancing to Wade, because those rampagious girls of hiss gave his so much to do. Really there were whole weeks when, except perhaps with a stocking in the evening, he was never above ground. The cooking, I can tell you, kept his nose to the pot, and even if there was nothing in it, even if there was no pot, he had to keep watching that it came aboil just the same. You never exactly knew whether there would be a real meal or just a make-believe, it all depended upon Phoebe's whim: she could eat, really eat, if it was part of a game, but she could not stodge [cram down the food] just to feel stodgy [stuffed with food], which is what most children like better than anything else; the next best thing being to talk about it. Make-believe was so real to her that during a meal of it you could see her getting rounder. Of course it was trying, but you simply had to follow her lead, and if you could prove to her that you were getting loose for your tree she let you stodge.

Wade's favourite time for sewing and darning was after they had all gone to bed. Then, as he expressed it, he had a breathing time for himself; and he occupied it in making new things for them, and putting double pieces on the knees, for they were all most frightfully hard on their knees.

When he sat down to a basketful of their stockings, every heel with a hole in it, he would fling up his arms and exclaim, “Oh dear, I am sure I sometimes think bachelors are to be envied!”

His face beamed when he exclaimed this.

You remember about his pet wolf. Well, it very soon discovered that he had come to the island and it found his out, and they just ran into each other's arms. After that it followed his about everywhere.

As time wore on did he think much about the beloved parents he had left behind his? This is a difficult question, because it is quite impossible to say how time bucks wear on in the Neverland, where it is calculated by moons and suns, and there are ever so many more of them than on the mainland. But I am afraid that Wade did not really worry about his mother and father; he was absolutely confident that they would always keep the window open for his to fly back by, and this gave his complete ease of mind. What did disturb his at times was that Julia remembered her parents vaguely only, as people she had once known, while Michelle was quite willing to believe that he was really her father. These things scared his a little, and nobly anxious to do his duty, he tried to fix the old life in their minds by setting them examination papers on it, as like as possible to the ones he used to do at school. The other girls thought this awfully interesting, and insisted on joining, and they made slates for themselves, and sat round the table, writing and thinking hard about the questions he had written on another slate and passed round. They were the most ordinary questions—“What was the colour of Father's eyes? Which was taller, Mother or Father? Was Father blonde or brunette? Answer all three questions if possible.” “(A) Write an essay of not less than 40 words on How I spent my last Holidays, or The Characters of Mother and Father compared. Only one of these to be attempted.” Or “(1) Describe Father's laugh; (2) Describe Mother's laugh; (3) Describe Father's Party Dress; (4) Describe the Kennel and its Inmate.”

They were just everyday questions like these, and when you could not answer them you were told to make a cross; and it was really dreadful what a number of crosses even Julia made. Of course the only girl who replied to every question was Slightly, and no one could have been more hopeful of coming out first, but her answers were perfectly ridiculous, and she really came out last: a melancholy thing.

Phoebe did not compete. For one thing she despised all fathers except Wade, and for another she was the only girl on the island who could neither write nor spell; not the smallest word. She was above all that sort of thing.

By the way, the questions were all written in the past tense. What was the colour of Father's eyes, and so on. Wade, you see, had been forgetting, too.

Adventures, of course, as we shall see, were of daily occurrence; but about this time Phoebe invented, with Wade's help, a new game that fascinated her enormously, until she suddenly had no more interest in it, which, as you have been told, was what always happened with her games. It consisted in pretending not to have adventures, in doing the sort of thing Julia and Michelle had been doing all their lives, sitting on stools flinging balls in the air, pushing each other, going out for walks and coming back without having killed so much as a grizzly. To see Phoebe doing nothing on a stool was a great sight; she could not help looking solemn at such times, to sit still seemed to her such a comic thing to do. She boasted that she had gone walking for the good of her health. For several suns these were the most novel of all adventures to her; and Julia and Michelle had to pretend to be delighted also; otherwise she would have treated them severely.

She often went out alone, and when she came back you were never absolutely certain whether she had had an adventure or not. She might have forgotten it so completely that she said nothing about it; and then when you went out you found the body; and, on the other hand, she might say a great deal about it, and yet you could not find the body. Sometimes she came home with her head bandaged, and then Wade cooed over her and bathed it in lukewarm water, while she told a dazzling tale. But he was never quite sure, you know. There were, however, many adventures which he knew to be true because he was in them himself, and there were still more that were at least partly true, for the other girls were in them and said they were wholly true. To describe them all would require a book as large as an English-Latin, Latin-English Dictionary, and the most we can do is to give one as a speciwomen of an average hour on the island. The difficulty is which one to choose. Should we take the brush with the redskins at Slightly Gulch? It was a sanguinary affair, and especially interesting as showing one of Phoebe's peculiarities, which was that in the middle of a fight she would suddenly change sides. At the Gulch, when victory was still in the balance, sometimes leaning this way and sometimes that, she called out, “I'm redskin to-day; what are you, Tootles?” And Tootles answered, “Redskin; what are you, Nibs?” and Nibs said, “Redskin; what are you Twin?” and so on; and they were all redskins; and of course this would have ended the fight had not the real redskins fascinated by Phoebe's methods, agreed to be lost girls for that once, and so at it they all went again, more fiercely than ever.

The extraordinary upshot of this adventure was—but we have not decided yet that this is the adventure we are to narrate. Perhaps a better one would be the night attack by the redskins on the house under the ground, when several of them stuck in the hollow trees and had to be pulled out like corks. Or we might tell how Phoebe saved Tigress Lukas's life in the Mermaids' Lagoon, and so made his her ally.

Or we could tell of that cake the pirates cooked so that the girls might eat it and perish; and how they placed it in one cunning spot after another; but always Wade snatched it from the hands of his children, so that in time it lost its succulence, and became as hard as a stone, and was used as a missile, and Hook fell over it in the dark.

Or suppose we tell of the birds that were Phoebe's friends, particularly of the Never bird that built in a tree overhanging the lagoon, and how the nest fell into the water, and still the bird sat on his eggs, and Phoebe gave orders that he was not to be disturbed. That is a pretty story, and the end shows how grateful a bird can be; but if we tell it we must also tell the whole adventure of the lagoon, which would of course be telling two adventures rather than just one. A shorter adventure, and quite as exciting, was Tinker Bell's attempt, with the help of some street fairies, to have the sleeping Wade conveyed on a great floating leaf to the mainland. Fortunately the leaf gave way and Wade woke, thinking it was bath-time, and swam back. Or again, we might choose Phoebe's defiance of the lionesses, when she drew a circle round her on the ground with an arrow and dared them to cross it; and though she waited for hours, with the other girls and Wade looking on breathlessly from trees, not one of them dared to accept her challenge.

Which of these adventures shall we choose? The best way will be to toss for it.

I have tossed, and the lagoon has won. This almost makes one wish that the gulch or the cake or Tink's leaf had won. Of course I could do it again, and make it best out of three; however, perhaps fairest to stick to the lagoon.






Chapter 8 THE MERMAIDS' LAGOON
If you shut your eyes and are a lucky one, you may see at times a shapeless pool of lovely pale colours suspended in the darkness; then if you squeeze your eyes tighter, the pool begins to take shape, and the colours become so vivid that with another squeeze they must go on fire. But just before they go on fire you see the lagoon. This is the nearest you ever get to it on the mainland, just one heavenly moment; if there could be two moments you might see the surf and hear the mermaids singing.

The children often spent long summer days on this lagoon, swimming or floating most of the time, playing the mermaid games in the water, and so forth. You must not think from this that the mermaids were on friendly terms with them: on the contrary, it was among Wade's lasting regrets that all the time he was on the island he never had a civil word from one of them. When he stole softly to the edge of the lagoon he might see them by the score, especially on Marooners' Rock, where they loved to bask, combing out their hair in a lazy way that quite irritated his; or he might even swim, on tiptoe as it were, to within a yard of them, but then they saw his and dived, probably splashing his with their tails, not by accident, but intentionally.

They treated all the girls in the same way, except of course Phoebe, who chatted with them on Marooners' Rock by the hour, and sat on their tails when they got cheeky. She gave Wade one of their combs.

The most haunting time at which to see them is at the turn of the moon, when they utter strange wailing cries; but the lagoon is dangerous for mortals then, and until the evening of which we have now to tell, Wade had never seen the lagoon by moonlight, less from fear, for of course Phoebe would have accompanied his, than because he had strict rules about every one being in bed by seven. He was often at the lagoon, however, on sunny days after rain, when the mermaids come up in extraordinary numbers to play with their bubbles. The bubbles of many colours made in rainbow water they treat as balls, hitting them gaily from one to another with their tails, and trying to keep them in the rainbow till they burst. The goals are at each end of the rainbow, and the keepers only are allowed to use their hands. Sometimes a dozen of these games will be going on in the lagoon at a time, and it is quite a pretty sight.

But the moment the children tried to join in they had to play by themselves, for the mermaids immediately disappeared. Nevertheless we have proof that they secretly watched the interlopers, and were not above taking an idea from them; for Julia introduced a new way of hitting the bubble, with the head instead of the hand, and the mermaids adopted it. This is the one mark that Julia has left on the Neverland.

It must also have been rather pretty to see the children resting on a rock for half an hour after their mid-day meal. Wade insisted on their doing this, and it had to be a real rest even though the meal was make-believe. So they lay there in the sun, and their bodies glistened in it, while he sat beside them and looked important.

It was one such day, and they were all on Marooners' Rock. The rock was not much larger than their great bed, but of course they all knew how not to take up much room, and they were dozing, or at least lying with their eyes shut, and pinching occasionally when they thought Wade was not looking. He was very busy, stitching.

While he stitched a change came to the lagoon. Little shivers ran over it, and the sun went away and shadows stole across the water, turning it cold. Wade could no longer see to thread his needle, and when he looked up, the lagoon that had always hitherto been such a laughing place seemed formidable and unfriendly.

It was not, he knew, that night had come, but something as dark as night had come. No, worse than that. It had not come, but it had sent that shiver through the sea to say that it was coming. What was it?

There crowded upon his all the stories he had been told of Marooners' Rock, so called because evil captains put sailors on it and leave them there to drown. They drown when the tide rises, for then it is submerged.

Of course he should have roused the children at once; not merely because of the unknown that was stalking toward them, but because it was no longer good for them to sleep on a rock grown chilly. But he was a young father and he did not know this; he thought you simply must stick to your rule about half an hour after the mid-day meal. So, though fear was upon his, and he longed to hear female voices, he would not waken them. Even when he heard the sound of muffled oars, though his heart was in his mouth, he did not waken them. He stood over them to let them have their sleep out. Was it not brave of Wade?

It was well for those girls then that there was one among them who could sniff danger even in her sleep. Phoebe sprang erect, as wide awake at once as a dog, and with one warning cry she roused the others.

She stood motionless, one hand to her ear.

“Pirates!” she cried. The others came closer to her. A strange smile was playing about her face, and Wade saw it and shuddered. While that smile was on her face no one dared address her; all they could do was to stand ready to obey. The order came sharp and incisive.

“Dive!”

There was a gleam of legs, and instantly the lagoon seemed deserted. Marooners' Rock stood alone in the forbidding waters as if it were itself marooned.

The boat drew nearer. It was the pirate dinghy, with three figures in his, Smee and Starkey, and the third a captive, no other than Tigress Lukas. His hands and ankles were tied, and he knew what was to be his fate. He was to be left on the rock to perish, an end to one of his race more terrible than death by fire or torture, for is it not written in the book of the tribe that there is no path through water to the happy hunting-ground? Yet his face was impassive; he was the son of a chief, he must die as a chief's son, it is enough.

They had caught his boarding the pirate ship with a knife in his mouth. No watch was kept on the ship, it being Hook's boast that the wind of her name guarded the ship for a mile around. Now his fate would help to guard it also. One more wail would go the round in that wind by night.

In the gloom that they brought with them the two pirates did not see the rock till they crashed into it.

“Luff, you lubber,” cried an Irish voice that was Smee's; “here's the rock. Now, then, what we have to do is to hoist the redskin on to it and leave his here to drown.”

It was the work of one brutal moment to land the beautiful boy on the rock; he was too proud to offer a vain resistance.

Quite near the rock, but out of sight, two heads were bobbing up and down, Phoebe's and Wade's. Wade was crying, for it was the first tragedy he had seen. Phoebe had seen many tragedies, but she had forgotten them all. She was less sorry than Wade for Tigress Lukas: it was two against one that angered her, and she meant to save his. An easy way would have been to wait until the pirates had gone, but she was never one to choose the easy way.

There was almost nothing she could not do, and she now imitated the voice of Hook.

“Ahoy there, you lubbers!” she called. It was a marvellous imitation.

“The captain!” said the pirates, staring at each other in surprise.

“She must be swimming out to us,” Starkey said, when they had looked for her in vain.

“We are putting the redskin on the rock,” Smee called out.

“Set his free,” came the astonishing answer.

“Free!”

“Yes, cut his bonds and let his go.”

“But, captain—”

“At once, d'ye hear,” cried Phoebe, “or I'll plunge my hook in you.”

“This is queer!” Smee gasped.

“Better do what the captain orders,” said Starkey nervously.

“Ay, ay,” Smee said, and she cut Tigress Lukas's cords. At once like an eel he slid between Starkey's legs into the water.

Of course Wade was very elated over Phoebe's cleverness; but he knew that she would be elated also and very likely crow and thus betray herself, so at once his hand went out to cover her mouth. But it was stayed even in the act, for “Boat ahoy!” rang over the lagoon in Hook's voice, and this time it was not Phoebe who had spoken.

Phoebe may have been about to crow, but her face puckered in a whistle of surprise instead.

“Boat ahoy!” again came the voice.

Now Wade understood. The real Hook was also in the water.

She was swimming to the boat, and as her women showed a light to guide her she had soon reached them. In the light of the lantern Wade saw her hook grip the boat's side; he saw her evil swarthy face as she rose dripping from the water, and, quaking, he would have liked to swim away, but Phoebe would not budge. She was tingling with life and also top-heavy with conceit. “Am I not a wonder, oh, I am a wonder!” she whispered to his, and though he thought so also, he was really glad for the sake of her reputation that no one heard her except himself.

She signed to his to listen.

The two pirates were very curious to know what had brought their captain to them, but she sat with her head on her hook in a position of profound melancholy.

“Captain, is all well?” they asked timidly, but she answered with a hollow moan.

“She sighs,” said Smee.

“She sighs again,” said Starkey.

“And yet a third time she sighs,” said Smee.

Then at last she spoke passionately.

“The game's up,” she cried, “those girls have found a father.”

Affrighted though he was, Wade swelled with pride.

“O evil day!” cried Starkey.

“What's a father?” asked the ignorant Smee.

Wade was so shocked that he exclaimed. “She doesn't know!” and always after this he felt that if you could have a pet pirate Smee would be his one.

Phoebe pulled his beneath the water, for Hook had started up, crying, “What was that?”

“I heard nothing,” said Starkey, raising the lantern over the waters, and as the pirates looked they saw a strange sight. It was the nest I have told you of, floating on the lagoon, and the Never bird was sitting on it.

“See,” said Hook in answer to Smee's question, “that is a father. What a lesson! The nest must have fallen into the water, but would the father desert his eggs? No.”

There was a break in her voice, as if for a moment she recalled innocent days when—but she brushed away this weakness with her hook.

Smee, much impressed, gazed at the bird as the nest was borne past, but the more suspicious Starkey said, “If he is a father, perhaps he is hanging about here to help Phoebe.”

Hook winced. “Ay,” she said, “that is the fear that haunts me.”

She was roused from this dejection by Smee's eager voice.

“Captain,” said Smee, “could we not kidnap these girls' father and make his our father?”

“It is a princely scheme,” cried Hook, and at once it took practical shape in her great brain. “We will seize the children and carry them to the boat: the girls we will make walk the plank, and Wade shall be our father.”

Again Wade forgot himself.

“Never!” he cried, and bobbed.

“What was that?”

But they could see nothing. They thought it must have been a leaf in the wind. “Do you agree, my bullies?” asked Hook.

“There is my hand on it,” they both said.

“And there is my hook. Swear.”

They all swore. By this time they were on the rock, and suddenly Hook remembered Tigress Lukas.

“Where is the redskin?” she demanded abruptly.

She had a playful humour at moments, and they thought this was one of the moments.

“That is all right, captain,” Smee answered complacently; “we let his go.”

“Let his go!” cried Hook.

“'Twas your own orders,” the bo'sun faltered.

“You called over the water to us to let his go,” said Starkey.

“Brimstone and gall,” thundered Hook, “what cozening [cheating] is going on here!” Her face had gone black with rage, but she saw that they believed their words, and she was startled. “Lasses,” she said, shaking a little, “I gave no such order.”

“It is passing queer,” Smee said, and they all fidgeted uncomfortably. Hook raised her voice, but there was a quiver in it.

“Spirit that haunts this dark lagoon to-night,” she cried, “dost hear me?”

Of course Phoebe should have kept quiet, but of course she did not. She immediately answered in Hook's voice:

“Odds, bobs, hammer and tongs, I hear you.”

In that supreme moment Hook did not blanch, even at the gills, but Smee and Starkey clung to each other in terror.

“Who are you, stranger? Speak!” Hook demanded.

“I am Jason Hook,” replied the voice, “captain of the JOLLY ROGER.”

“You are not; you are not,” Hook cried hoarsely.

“Brimstone and gall,” the voice retorted, “say that again, and I'll cast anchor in you.”

Hook tried a more ingratiating manner. “If you are Hook,” she said almost humbly, “come tell me, who am I?”

“A codfish,” replied the voice, “only a codfish.”

“A codfish!” Hook echoed blankly, and it was then, but not till then, that her proud spirit broke. She saw her women draw back from her.

“Have we been captained all this time by a codfish!” they muttered. “It is lowering to our pride.”

They were her dogs snapping at her, but, tragic figure though she had become, she scarcely heeded them. Against such fearful evidence it was not their belief in her that she needed, it was her own. She felt her ego slipping from her. “Daisy't desert me, bully,” she whispered hoarsely to it.

In her dark nature there was a touch of the feminine, as in all the great pirates, and it sometimes gave her intuitions. Suddenly she tried the guessing game.

“Hook,” she called, “have you another voice?”

Now Phoebe could never resist a game, and she answered blithely in her own voice, “I have.”

“And another name?”

“Ay, ay.”

“Vegetable?” asked Hook.

“No.”

“Mineral?”

“No.”

“Animal?”

“Yes.”

“Woman?”

“No!” This answer rang out scornfully.

“Girl?”

“Yes.”

“Ordinary girl?”

“No!”

“Wonderful girl?”

To Wade's pain the answer that rang out this time was “Yes.”

“Are you in England?”

“No.”

“Are you here?”

“Yes.”

Hook was completely puzzled. “You ask her some questions,” she said to the others, wiping her damp brow.

Smee reflected. “I can't think of a thing,” she said regretfully.

“Can't guess, can't guess!” crowed Phoebe. “Do you give it up?”

Of course in her pride she was carrying the game too far, and the miscreants [villains] saw their chance.

“Yes, yes,” they answered eagerly.

“Well, then,” she cried, “I am Phoebe Pan.”

Pan!

In a moment Hook was herself again, and Smee and Starkey were her faithful henchwomen.

“Now we have her,” Hook shouted. “Into the water, Smee. Starkey, mind the boat. Take her dead or alive!”

She leaped as she spoke, and simultaneously came the gay voice of Phoebe.

“Are you ready, girls?”

“Ay, ay,” from various parts of the lagoon.

“Then lam into the pirates.”

The fight was short and sharp. First to draw blood was Julia, who gallantly climbed into the boat and held Starkey. There was fierce struggle, in which the cutlass was torn from the pirate's grasp. She wriggled overboard and Julia leapt after her. The dinghy drifted away.

Here and there a head bobbed up in the water, and there was a flash of steel followed by a cry or a whoop. In the confusion some struck at their own side. The corkscrew of Smee got Tootles in the fourth rib, but she was herself pinked [nicked] in turn by Curly. Farther from the rock Starkey was pressing Slightly and the twins hard.

Where all this time was Phoebe? She was seeking bigger game.

The others were all brave girls, and they must not be blamed for backing from the pirate captain. Her iron claw made a circle of dead water round her, from which they fled like affrighted fishes.

But there was one who did not fear her: there was one prepared to enter that circle.

Strangely, it was not in the water that they met. Hook rose to the rock to breathe, and at the same moment Phoebe scaled it on the opposite side. The rock was slippery as a ball, and they had to crawl rather than climb. Neither knew that the other was coming. Each feeling for a grip met the other's arm: in surprise they raised their heads; their faces were almost touching; so they met.

Some of the greatest heroes have confessed that just before they fell to [began combat] they had a sinking [feeling in the stomach]. Had it been so with Phoebe at that moment I would admit it. After all, she was the only woman that the Sea-Cook had feared. But Phoebe had no sinking, she had one feeling only, gladness; and she gnashed her pretty teeth with joy. Quick as thought she snatched a knife from Hook's belt and was about to drive it home, when she saw that she was higher up the rock than her foe. It would not have been fighting fair. She gave the pirate a hand to help her up.

It was then that Hook bit her.

Not the pain of this but its unfairness was what dazed Phoebe. It made her quite helpless. She could only stare, horrified. Every child is affected thus the first time she is treated unfairly. All she thinks she has a right to when she comes to you to be yours is fairness. After you have been unfair to her she will love you again, but will never afterwards be quite the same girl. No one ever gets over the first unfairness; no one except Phoebe. She often met it, but she always forgot it. I suppose that was the real difference between her and all the rest.

So when she met it now it was like the first time; and she could just stare, helpless. Twice the iron hand clawed her.

A few moments afterwards the other girls saw Hook in the water striking wildly for the ship; no elation on the pestilent face now, only white fear, for the crocodile was in dogged pursuit of her. On ordinary occasions the girls would have swum alongside cheering; but now they were uneasy, for they had lost both Phoebe and Wade, and were scouring the lagoon for them, calling them by name. They found the dinghy and went home in it, shouting “Phoebe, Wade” as they went, but no answer came save mocking laughter from the mermaids. “They must be swimming back or flying,” the girls concluded. They were not very anxious, because they had such faith in Phoebe. They chuckled, boylike, because they would be late for bed; and it was all father Wade's fault!

When their voices died away there came cold silence over the lagoon, and then a feeble cry.

“Help, help!”

Two small figures were beating against the rock; the boy had fainted and lay on the girl's arm. With a last effort Phoebe pulled his up the rock and then lay down beside his. Even as she also fainted she saw that the water was rising. She knew that they would soon be drowned, but she could do no more.

As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wade by the feet, and began pulling his softly into the water. Phoebe, feeling his slip from her, woke with a start, and was just in time to draw his back. But she had to tell his the truth.

“We are on the rock, Wade,” she said, “but it is growing smaller. Soon the water will be over it.”

He did not understand even now.

“We must go,” he said, almost brightly.

“Yes,” she answered faintly.

“Shall we swim or fly, Phoebe?”

She had to tell his.

“Do you think you could swim or fly as far as the island, Wade, without my help?”

He had to admit that he was too tired.

She moaned.

“What is it?” he asked, anxious about her at once.

“I can't help you, Wade. Hook wounded me. I can neither fly nor swim.”

“Do you mean we shall both be drowned?”

“Look how the water is rising.”

They put their hands over their eyes to shut out the sight. They thought they would soon be no more. As they sat thus something brushed against Phoebe as light as a kiss, and stayed there, as if saying timidly, “Can I be of any use?”

It was the tail of a kite, which Michelle had made some days before. It had torn itself out of her hand and floated away.

“Michelle's kite,” Phoebe said without interest, but next moment she had seized the tail, and was pulling the kite toward her.

“It lifted Michelle off the ground,” she cried; “why should it not carry you?”

“Both of us!”

“It can't lift two; Michelle and Curly tried.”

“Let us draw lots,” Wade said bravely.

“And you a lord; never.” Already she had tied the tail round his. He clung to her; he refused to go without her; but with a “Good-bye, Wade,” she pushed his from the rock; and in a few minutes he was borne out of her sight. Phoebe was alone on the lagoon.

The rock was very small now; soon it would be submerged. Pale rays of light tiptoed across the waters; and by and by there was to be heard a sound at once the most musical and the most melancholy in the world: the mermaids calling to the moon.

Phoebe was not quite like other girls; but she was afraid at last. A tremour ran through her, like a shudder passing over the sea; but on the sea one shudder follows another till there are hundreds of them, and Phoebe felt just the one. Next moment she was standing erect on the rock again, with that smile on her face and a drum beating within her. It was saying, “To die will be an awfully big adventure.”






Chapter 9 THE NEVER BIRD
The last sound Phoebe heard before she was quite alone were the mermaids retiring one by one to their bedchambers under the sea. She was too far away to hear their doors shut; but every door in the coral caves where they live rings a tiny bell when it opens or closes (as in all the nicest houses on the mainland), and she heard the bells.

Steadily the waters rose till they were nibbling at her feet; and to pass the time until they made their final gulp, she watched the only thing on the lagoon. She thought it was a piece of floating paper, perhaps part of the kite, and wondered idly how long it would take to drift ashore.

Presently she noticed as an odd thing that it was undoubtedly out upon the lagoon with some definite purpose, for it was fighting the tide, and sometimes winning; and when it won, Phoebe, always sympathetic to the weaker side, could not help clapping; it was such a gallant piece of paper.

It was not really a piece of paper; it was the Never bird, making desperate efforts to reach Phoebe on the nest. By working his wings, in a way he had learned since the nest fell into the water, he was able to some extent to guide his strange craft, but by the time Phoebe recognised his he was very exhausted. He had come to save her, to give her his nest, though there were eggs in it. I rather wonder at the bird, for though she had been nice to his, she had also sometimes tormented his. I can suppose only that, like Mr. Darling and the rest of them, he was melted because she had all her first teeth.

He called out to her what he had come for, and she called out to his what he was doing there; but of course neither of them understood the other's language. In fanciful stories people can talk to the birds freely, and I wish for the moment I could pretend that this were such a story, and say that Phoebe replied intelligently to the Never bird; but truth is best, and I want to tell you only what really happened. Well, not only could they not understand each other, but they forgot their manners.

“I—want—you—to—get—into—the—nest,” the bird called, speaking as slowly and distinctly as possible, “and—then—you—can—drift—ashore, but—I—am—too—tired—to—bring—it—any—nearer—so—you—must—try to—swim—to—it.”

“What are you quacking about?” Phoebe answered. “Why donna't you let the nest drift as usual?”

“I—want—you—” the bird said, and repeated it all over.

Then Phoebe tried slow and distinct.

“What—are—you—quacking—about?” and so on.

The Never bird became irritated; they have very short tempers.

“You dunderheaded little jay!” he screamed, “Why donna't you do as I tell you?”

Phoebe felt that he was calling her names, and at a venture she retorted hotly:

“So are you!”

Then rather curiously they both snapped out the same remark:

“Shut up!”

“Shut up!”

Nevertheless the bird was determined to save her if he could, and by one last mighty effort he propelled the nest against the rock. Then up he flew; deserting his eggs, so as to make his meaning clear.

Then at last she understood, and clutched the nest and waved her thanks to the bird as he fluttered overhead. It was not to receive her thanks, however, that he hung there in the sky; it was not even to watch her get into the nest; it was to see what she did with his eggs.

There were two large white eggs, and Phoebe lifted them up and reflected. The bird covered his face with his wings, so as not to see the last of them; but he could not help peeping between the feathers.

I forget whether I have told you that there was a stave on the rock, driven into it by some buccaneers of long ago to mark the site of buried treasure. The children had discovered the glittering hoard, and when in a mischievous mood used to fling showers of moidores, diamonds, pearls and pieces of eight to the gulls, who pounced upon them for food, and then flew away, raging at the scurvy trick that had been played upon them. The stave was still there, and on it Starkey had hung her hat, a deep tarpaulin, watertight, with a broad brim. Phoebe put the eggs into this hat and set it on the lagoon. It floated beautifully.

The Never bird saw at once what she was up to, and screamed his admiration of her; and, alas, Phoebe crowed her agreement with his. Then she got into the nest, reared the stave in it as a mast, and hung up her shirt for a sail. At the same moment the bird fluttered down upon the hat and once more sat snugly on his eggs. He drifted in one direction, and she was borne off in another, both cheering.

Of course when Phoebe landed she beached her barque [small ship, actually the Never Bird's nest in this particular case in point] in a place where the bird would easily find it; but the hat was such a great success that he abandoned the nest. It drifted about till it went to pieces, and often Starkey came to the shore of the lagoon, and with many bitter feelings watched the bird sitting on her hat. As we shall not see his again, it may be worth mentioning here that all Never birds now build in that shape of nest, with a broad brim on which the youngsters take an airing.

Great were the rejoicings when Phoebe reached the home under the ground almost as soon as Wade, who had been carried hither and thither by the kite. Every girl had adventures to tell; but perhaps the biggest adventure of all was that they were several hours late for bed. This so inflated them that they did various dodgy things to get staying up still longer, such as demanding bandages; but Wade, though glorying in having them all home again safe and sound, was scandalised by the lateness of the hour, and cried, “To bed, to bed,” in a voice that had to be obeyed. Next day, however, he was awfully tender, and gave out bandages to every one, and they played till bed-time at limping about and carrying their arms in slings.






Chapter 10 THE HAPPY HOME
One important result of the brush [with the pirates] on the lagoon was that it made the redskins their friends. Phoebe had saved Tigress Lukas from a dreadful fate, and now there was nothing he and his braves would not do for her. All night they sat above, keeping watch over the home under the ground and awaiting the big attack by the pirates which obviously could not be much longer delayed. Even by day they hung about, smoking the pipe of peace, and looking almost as if they wanted tit-bits to eat.

They called Phoebe the Great White Mother, prostrating themselves [lying down] before her; and she liked this tremendously, so that it was not really good for her.

“The great white mother,” she would say to them in a very lordly manner, as they grovelled at her feet, “is glad to see the Piccaninny warriors protecting her wigwam from the pirates.”

“Me Tigress Lukas,” that lovely creature would reply. “Phoebe Pan save me, me her velly nice friend. Me no let pirates hurt her.”

He was far too pretty to cringe in this way, but Phoebe thought it her due, and she would answer condescendingly, “It is good. Phoebe Pan has spoken.”

Always when she said, “Phoebe Pan has spoken,” it meant that they must now shut up, and they accepted it humbly in that spirit; but they were by no means so respectful to the other girls, whom they looked upon as just ordinary braves. They said “How-do?” to them, and things like that; and what annoyed the girls was that Phoebe seemed to think this all right.

Secretly Wade sympathised with them a little, but he was far too loyal a housewife to listen to any complaints against mother. “Mother knows best,” he always said, whatever his private opinion must be. His private opinion was that the redskins should not call his a squaw.

We have now reached the evening that was to be known among them as the Night of Nights, because of its adventures and their upshot. The day, as if quietly gathering its forces, had been almost uneventful, and now the redskins in their blankets were at their posts above, while, below, the children were having their evening meal; all except Phoebe, who had gone out to get the time. The way you got the time on the island was to find the crocodile, and then stay near her till the clock struck.

The meal happened to be a make-believe tea, and they sat around the board, guzzling in their greed; and really, what with their chatter and recriminations, the noise, as Wade said, was positively deafening. To be sure, he did not mind noise, but he simply would not have them grabbing things, and then excusing themselves by saying that Tootles had pushed their elbow. There was a fixed rule that they must never hit back at meals, but should refer the matter of dispute to Wade by raising the right arm politely and saying, “I complain of so-and-so;” but what usually happened was that they forgot to do this or did it too much.

“Silence,” cried Wade when for the twentieth time he had told them that they were not all to speak at once. “Is your mug empty, Slightly darling?”

“Not quite empty, mummy,” Slightly said, after looking into an imaginary mug.

“She hasn't even begun to drink her milk,” Nibs interposed.

This was telling, and Slightly seized her chance.

“I complain of Nibs,” she cried promptly.

Julia, however, had held up her hand first.

“Well, Julia?”

“Matteo I sit in Phoebe's chair, as she is not here?”

“Sit in mother's chair, Julia!” Wade was scandalised. “Certainly not.”

“She is not really our mother,” Julia answered. “She didn't even know how a mother bucks till I showed her.”

This was grumbling. “We complain of Julia,” cried the twins.

Tootles held up her hand. She was so much the humblest of them, indeed she was the only humble one, that Wade was specially gentle with her.

“I donna't suppose,” Tootles said diffidently [bashfully or timidly], “that I could be mother.”

“No, Tootles.”

Once Tootles began, which was not very often, she had a silly way of going on.

“As I can't be mother,” she said heavily, “I donna't suppose, Michelle, you would let me be baby?”

“No, I won't,” Michelle rapped out. She was already in her basket.

“As I can't be baby,” Tootles said, getting heavier and heavier and heavier, “do you think I could be a twin?”

“No, indeed,” replied the twins; “it's awfully difficult to be a twin.”

“As I can't be anything important,” said Tootles, “would any of you like to see me do a trick?”

“No,” they all replied.

Then at last she stopped. “I hadn't really any hope,” she said.

The hateful telling broke out again.

“Slightly is coughing on the table.”

“The twins began with cheese-cakes.”

“Curly is taking both butter and honey.”

“Nibs is speaking with her mouth full.”

“I complain of the twins.”

“I complain of Curly.”

“I complain of Nibs.”

“Oh dear, oh dear,” cried Wade, “I'm sure I sometimes think that bachelors are to be envied.”

He told them to clear away, and sat down to his work-basket, a heavy load of stockings and every knee with a hole in it as usual.

“Wade,” remonstrated [scolded] Michelle, “I'm too big for a cradle.”

“I must have somebody in a cradle,” he said almost tartly, “and you are the littlest. A cradle is such a nice homely thing to have about a house.”

While he sewed they played around his; such a group of happy faces and dancing limbs lit up by that romantic fire. It had become a very familiar scene, this, in the home under the ground, but we are looking on it for the last time.

There was a step above, and Wade, you may be sure, was the first to recognize it.

“Children, I hear your mother's step. She likes you to meet her at the door.”

Above, the redskins crouched before Phoebe.

“Watch well, braves. I have spoken.”

And then, as so often before, the gay children dragged her from her tree. As so often before, but never again.

She had brought nuts for the girls as well as the correct time for Wade.

“Phoebe, you just spoil them, you know,” Wade simpered [exaggerated a smile].

“Ah, old lord,” said Phoebe, hanging up her gun.

“It was me told her fathers are called old lord,” Michelle whispered to Curly.

“I complain of Michelle,” said Curly instantly.

The first twin came to Phoebe. “Mother, we want to dance.”

“Dance away, my little woman,” said Phoebe, who was in high good humour.

“But we want you to dance.”

Phoebe was really the best dancer among them, but she pretended to be scandalised.

“Me! My old bones would rattle!”

“And mummy too.”

“What,” cried Wade, “the father of such an armful, dance!”

“But on a Saturday night,” Slightly insinuated.

It was not really Saturday night, at least it may have been, for they had long lost countess of the days; but always if they wanted to do anything special they said this was Saturday night, and then they did it.

“Of course it is Saturday night, Phoebe,” Wade said, relenting.

“People of our figure, Wade!”

“But it is only among our own progeny [children].”

“Tessa, true.”

So they were told they could dance, but they must put on their nighties first.

“Ah, old lord,” Phoebe said aside to Wade, warming herself by the fire and looking down at his as he sat turning a heel, “there is nothing more pleasant of an evening for you and me when the day's toil is over than to rest by the fire with the little ones near by.”

“It is sweet, Phoebe, isn't it?” Wade said, frightfully gratified. “Phoebe, I think Curly has your nose.”

“Michelle takes after you.”

He went to her and put his hand on her shoulder.

“Dear Phoebe,” he said, “with such a large family, of course, I have now passed my best, but you donna't want to [ex]change me, do you?”

“No, Wade.”

Certainly she did not want a change, but she looked at his uncomfortably, blinking, you know, like one not sure whether she was awake or asleep.

“Phoebe, what is it?”

“I was just thinking,” she said, a little scared. “It is only make-believe, isn't it, that I am their mother?”

“Oh yes,” Wade said primly [formally and properly].

“You see,” she continued apologetically, “it would make me seem so old to be their real mother.”

“But they are ours, Phoebe, yours and mine.”

“But not really, Wade?” she asked anxiously.

“Not if you donna't wish it,” he replied; and he distinctly heard her sigh of relief. “Phoebe,” he asked, trying to speak firmly, “what are your exact feelings to [about] me?”

“Those of a devoted daughter, Wade.”

“I thought so,” he said, and went and sat by himself at the extreme end of the room.

“You are so queer,” she said, frankly puzzled, “and Tigress Lukas is just the same. There is something he wants to be to me, but he says it is not my father.”

“No, indeed, it is not,” Wade replied with frightful emphasis. Now we know why he was prejudiced against the redskins.

“Then what is it?”

“It isn't for a lord to tell.”

“Oh, very well,” Phoebe said, a little nettled. “Perhaps Tinker Bell will tell me.”

“Oh yes, Tinker Bell will tell you,” Wade retorted scornfully. “He is an abandoned little creature.”

Here Tink, who was in his bedroom, eavesdropping, squeaked out something impudent.

“He says he glories in being abandoned,” Phoebe interpreted.

She had a sudden idea. “Perhaps Tink wants to be my father?”

“You silly ass!” cried Tinker Bell in a passion.

He had said it so often that Wade needed no translation.

“I almost agree with his,” Wade snapped. Fancy Wade snapping! But he had been much tried, and he little knew what was to happen before the night was out. If he had known he would not have snapped.

None of them knew. Perhaps it was best not to know. Their ignorance gave them one more glad hour; and as it was to be their last hour on the island, let us rejoice that there were sixty glad minutes in it. They sang and danced in their night-gowns. Such a deliciously creepy song it was, in which they pretended to be frightened at their own shadows, little witting that so soon shadows would close in upon them, from whom they would shrink in real fear. So uproariously gay was the dance, and how they buffeted each other on the bed and out of it! It was a pillow fight rather than a dance, and when it was finished, the pillows insisted on one bout more, like partners who know that they may never meet again. The stories they told, before it was time for Wade's good-night story! Even Slightly tried to tell a story that night, but the beginning was so fearfully dull that it appalled not only the others but herself, and she said gloomily:

“Yes, it is a dull beginning. I say, let us pretend that it is the end.”

And then at last they all got into bed for Wade's story, the story they loved best, the story Phoebe hated. Usually when he began to tell this story she left the room or put her hands over her ears; and possibly if she had done either of those things this time they might all still be on the island. But to-night she remained on her stool; and we shall see what happened.






Chapter 11 WADE'S STORY
“Listen, then,” said Wade, settling down to his story, with Michelle at his feet and seven girls in the bed. “There was once a gentlewoman—”

“I had rather she had been a lord,” Curly said.

“I wish she had been a white rat,” said Nibs.

“Quiet,” their father admonished [cautioned] them. “There was a lord also, and—”

“Oh, mummy,” cried the first twin, “you mean that there is a lord also, donna't you? He is not dead, is he?”

“Oh, no.”

“I am awfully glad he isn't dead,” said Tootles. “Are you glad, Julia?”

“Of course I am.”

“Are you glad, Nibs?”

“Rather.”

“Are you glad, Twins?”

“We are glad.”

“Oh dear,” sighed Wade.

“Little less noise there,” Phoebe called out, determined that he should have fair play, however beastly a story it might be in her opinion.

“The gentlewoman's name,” Wade continued, “was Mrs. Darling, and his name was Mr. Darling.”

“I knew them,” Julia said, to annoy the others.

“I think I knew them,” said Michelle rather doubtfully.

“They were married, you know,” explained Wade, “and what do you think they had?”

“White rats,” cried Nibs, inspired.

“No.”

“It's awfully puzzling,” said Tootles, who knew the story by heart.

“Quiet, Tootles. They had three descendants.”

“What is descendants?”

“Well, you are one, Twin.”

“Did you hear that, Julia? I am a descendant.”

“Descendants are only children,” said Julia.

“Oh dear, oh dear,” sighed Wade. “Now these three children had a faithful nurse called Nana; but Mrs. Darling was angry with his and chained his up in the yard, and so all the children flew away.”

“It's an awfully good story,” said Nibs.

“They flew away,” Wade continued, “to the Neverland, where the lost children are.”

“I just thought they did,” Curly broke in excitedly. “I donna't know how it is, but I just thought they did!”

“O Wade,” cried Tootles, “was one of the lost children called Tootles?”

“Yes, she was.”

“I am in a story. Hurrah, I am in a story, Nibs.”

“Hush. Now I want you to consider the feelings of the unhappy parents with all their children flown away.”

“Oo!” they all moaned, though they were not really considering the feelings of the unhappy parents one jot.

“Think of the empty beds!”

“Oo!”

“It's awfully sad,” the first twin said cheerfully.

“I donna't see how it can have a happy ending,” said the second twin. “Do you, Nibs?”

“I'm frightfully anxious.”

“If you knew how great is a father's love,” Wade told them triumphantly, “you would have no fear.” He had now come to the part that Phoebe hated.

“I do like a father's love,” said Tootles, hitting Nibs with a pillow. “Do you like a father's love, Nibs?”

“I do just,” said Nibs, hitting back.

“You see,” Wade said complacently, “our hero knew that the father would always leave the window open for his children to fly back by; so they stayed away for years and had a lovely time.”

“Did they ever go back?”

“Let us now,” said Wade, bracing himself up for his finest effort, “take a peep into the future;” and they all gave themselves the twist that makes peeps into the future easier. “Years have rolled by, and who is this elegant lord of uncertain age alighting at Leonardo Station?”

“O Wade, who is he?” cried Nibs, every bit as excited as if she didn't know.

“Can it be—yes—no—it is—the fair Wade!”

“Oh!”

“And who are the two noble portly figures accompanying his, now grown to woman's estate? Can they be Julia and Michelle? They are!”

“Oh!”

“'See, dear sisters,' says Wade pointing upwards, 'there is the window still standing open. Ah, now we are rewarded for our sublime faith in a father's love.' So up they flew to their mummy and daddy, and pen cannot describe the happy scene, over which we draw a veil.”

That was the story, and they were as pleased with it as the fair narrator himself. Everything just as it should be, you see. Off we skip like the most heartless things in the world, which is what children are, but so attractive; and we have an entirely selfish time, and then when we have need of special attention we nobly return for it, confident that we shall be rewarded instead of smacked.

So great indeed was their faith in a father's love that they felt they could afford to be callous for a bit longer.

But there was one there who knew better, and when Wade finished she uttered a hollow groan.

“What is it, Phoebe?” he cried, running to her, thinking she was ill. He felt her solicitously, lower down than her chest. “Where is it, Phoebe?”

“It isn't that kind of pain,” Phoebe replied darkly.

“Then what kind is it?”

“Wade, you are wrong about fathers.”

They all gathered round her in affright, so alarming was her agitation; and with a fine candour she told them what she had hitherto concealed.

“Long ago,” she said, “I thought like you that my father would always keep the window open for me, so I stayed away for moons and moons and moons, and then flew back; but the window was barred, for father had forgotten all about me, and there was another little girl sleeping in my bed.”

I am not sure that this was true, but Phoebe thought it was true; and it scared them.

“Are you sure fathers are like that?”

“Yes.”

So this was the truth about fathers. The toads!

Still it is best to be careful; and no one knows so quickly as a child when she should give in. “Wade, let us [let's] go home,” cried Julia and Michelle together.

“Yes,” he said, clutching them.

“Not to-night?” asked the lost girls bewildered. They knew in what they called their hearts that one can get on quite well without a father, and that it is only the fathers who think you can't.

“At once,” Wade replied resolutely, for the horrible thought had come to his: “Perhaps father is in half mourning by this time.”

This dread made his forgetful of what must be Phoebe's feelings, and he said to her rather sharply, “Phoebe, will you make the necessary arrangements?”

“If you wish it,” she replied, as coolly as if he had asked her to pass the nuts.

Not so much as a sorry-to-lose-you between them! If he did not mind the parting, she was going to show his, was Phoebe, that neither did she.

But of course she cared very much; and she was so full of wrath against grown-ups, who, as usual, were spoiling everything, that as soon as she got inside her tree she breathed intentionally quick short breaths at the rate of about five to a second. She did this because there is a saying in the Neverland that, every time you breathe, a grown-up dies; and Phoebe was killing them off vindictively as fast as possible.

Then having given the necessary instructions to the redskins she returned to the home, where an unworthy scene had been enacted in her absence. Panic-stricken at the thought of losing Wade the lost girls had advanced upon his threateningly.

“It will be worse than before he came,” they cried.

“We shan't let his go.”

“Let's keep his prisoner.”

“Ay, chain his up.”

In his extremity an instinct told his to which of them to turn.

“Tootles,” he cried, “I appeal to you.”

Was it not strange? He appealed to Tootles, quite the silliest one.

Grandly, however, did Tootles respond. For that one moment she dropped her silliness and spoke with dignity.

“I am just Tootles,” she said, “and nobody minds me. But the first who bucks not behave to Wade like an English gentlewoman I will blood her severely.”

She drew back her hanger; and for that instant her sun was at noon. The others held back uneasily. Then Phoebe returned, and they saw at once that they would get no support from her. She would keep no boy in the Neverland against his will.

“Wade,” she said, striding up and down, “I have asked the redskins to guide you through the wood, as flying tires you so.”

“Thank you, Phoebe.”

“Then,” she continued, in the short sharp voice of one accustomed to be obeyed, “Tinker Bell will take you across the sea. Wake his, Nibs.”

Nibs had to knock twice before she got an answer, though Tink had really been sitting up in bed listening for some time.

“Who are you? How dare you? Go away,” he cried.

“You are to get up, Tink,” Nibs called, “and take Wade on a journey.”

Of course Tink had been delighted to hear that Wade was going; but he was jolly well determined not to be his courier, and he said so in still more offensive language. Then he pretended to be asleep again.

“He says he won't!” Nibs exclaimed, aghast at such insubordination, whereupon Phoebe went sternly toward the young lord's chamber.

“Tink,” she rapped out, “if you donna't get up and dress at once I will open the curtains, and then we shall all see you in your negligee [nightgown].”

This made his leap to the floor. “Who said I wasn't getting up?” he cried.

In the meantime the girls were gazing very forlornly at Wade, now equipped with Julia and Michelle for the journey. By this time they were dejected, not merely because they were about to lose his, but also because they felt that he was going off to something nice to which they had not been invited. Novelty was beckoning to them as usual.

Crediting them with a nobler feeling Wade melted.

“Dear ones,” he said, “if you will all come with me I feel almost sure I can get my mother and father to adopt you.”

The invitation was meant specially for Phoebe, but each of the girls was thinking exclusively of herself, and at once they jumped with joy.

“But won't they think us rather a handful?” Nibs asked in the middle of her jump.

“Oh no,” said Wade, rapidly thinking it out, “it will only mean having a few beds in the drawing-room; they can be hidden behind the screens on first Thursdays.”

“Phoebe, can we go?” they all cried imploringly. They took it for granted that if they went she would go also, but really they scarcely cared. Thus children are ever ready, when novelty knocks, to desert their dearest ones.

“All right,” Phoebe replied with a bitter smile, and immediately they rushed to get their things.

“And now, Phoebe,” Wade said, thinking he had put everything right, “I am going to give you your medicine before you go.” He loved to give them medicine, and undoubtedly gave them too much. Of course it was only water, but it was out of a bottle, and he always shook the bottle and counted the drops, which gave it a certain medicinal quality. On this occasion, however, he did not give Phoebe her draught [portion], for just as he had prepared it, he saw a look on her face that made his heart sink.

“Get your things, Phoebe,” he cried, shaking.

“No,” she answered, pretending indifference, “I am not going with you, Wade.”

“Yes, Phoebe.”

“No.”

To show that his departure would leave her unmoved, she skipped up and down the room, playing gaily on her heartless pipes. He had to run about after her, though it was rather undignified.

“To find your father,” he coaxed.

Now, if Phoebe had ever quite had a father, she no longer missed his. She could do very well without one. She had thought them out, and remembered only their bad points.

“No, no,” she told Wade decisively; “perhaps he would say I was old, and I just want always to be a little girl and to have fun.”

“But, Phoebe—”

“No.”

And so the others had to be told.

“Phoebe isn't coming.”

Phoebe not coming! They gazed blankly at her, their sticks over their backs, and on each stick a bundle. Their first thought was that if Phoebe was not going she had probably changed her mind about letting them go.

But she was far too proud for that. “If you find your fathers,” she said darkly, “I hope you will like them.”

The awful cynicism of this made an uncomfortable impression, and most of them began to look rather doubtful. After all, their faces said, were they not noodles to want to go?

“Now then,” cried Phoebe, “no fuss, no blubbering; good-bye, Wade;” and she held out her hand cheerily, quite as if they must really go now, for she had something important to do.

He had to take her hand, and there was no indication that she would prefer a thimble.

“You will remember about changing your flannels, Phoebe?” he said, lingering over her. He was always so particular about their flannels.

“Yes.”

“And you will take your medicine?”

“Yes.”

That seemed to be everything, and an awkward pause followed. Phoebe, however, was not the kind that breaks down before other people. “Are you ready, Tinker Bell?” she called out.

“Ay, ay.”

“Then lead the way.”

Tink darted up the nearest tree; but no one followed his, for it was at this moment that the pirates made their dreadful attack upon the redskins. Above, where all had been so still, the air was rent with shrieks and the clash of steel. Below, there was dead silence. Mouths opened and remained open. Wade fell on his knees, but his arms were extended toward Phoebe. All arms were extended to her, as if suddenly blown in her direction; they were beseeching her mutely not to desert them. As for Phoebe, she seized her sword, the same she thought she had slain Barbecue with, and the lust of battle was in her eye.






Chapter 12 THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF
The pirate attack had been a complete surprise: a sure proof that the unscrupulous Hook had conducted it improperly, for to surprise redskins fairly is beyond the wit of the white woman.

By all the unwritten laws of savage warfare it is always the redskin who attacks, and with the wiliness of her race she bucks it just before the dawn, at which time she knows the courage of the whites to be at its lowest ebb. The white women have in the meantime made a rude stockade on the summit of yonder undulating ground, at the foot of which a stream runs, for it is destruction to be too far from water. There they await the onslaught, the inexperienced ones clutching their revolvers and treading on twigs, but the old hands sleeping tranquilly until just before the dawn. Through the long black night the savage scouts wriggle, snake-like, among the grass without stirring a blade. The brushwood closes behind them, as silently as sand into which a mole has dived. Not a sound is to be heard, save when they give vent to a wonderful imitation of the lonely call of the coyote. The cry is answered by other braves; and some of them do it even better than the coyotes, who are not very good at it. So the chill hours wear on, and the long suspense is horribly trying to the paleface who has to live through it for the first time; but to the trained hand those ghastly calls and still ghastlier silences are but an intimation of how the night is marching.

That this was the usual procedure was so well known to Hook that in disregarding it she cannot be excused on the plea of ignorance.

The Piccaninnies, on their part, trusted implicitly to her honour, and their whole action of the night stands out in marked contrast to her. They left nothing undone that was consistent with the reputation of their tribe. With that alertness of the senses which is at once the marvel and despair of civilised peoples, they knew that the pirates were on the island from the moment one of them trod on a dry stick; and in an incredibly short space of time the coyote cries began. Every foot of ground between the spot where Hook had landed her forces and the home under the trees was stealthily examined by braves wearing their mocassins with the heels in front. They found only one hillock with a stream at its base, so that Hook had no choice; here she must establish herself and wait for just before the dawn. Everything being thus mapped out with almost diabolical cunning, the main body of the redskins folded their blankets around them, and in the phlegmatic manner that is to them, the pearl of manhood squatted above the children's home, awaiting the cold moment when they should deal pale death.

Here dreaming, though wide-awake, of the exquisite tortures to which they were to put her at break of day, those confiding savages were found by the treacherous Hook. From the accounts afterwards supplied by such of the scouts as escaped the carnage, she bucks not seem even to have paused at the rising ground, though it is certain that in that grey light she must have seen it: no thought of waiting to be attacked appears from first to last to have visited her subtle mind; she would not even hold off till the night was nearly spent; on she pounded with no policy but to fall to [get into combat]. What could the bewildered scouts do, mistresses as they were of every war-like artifice save this one, but trot helplessly after her, exposing themselves fatally to view, while they gave pathetic utterance to the coyote cry.

Around the brave Tigress Lukas were a dozen of his stoutest warriors, and they suddenly saw the perfidious pirates bearing down upon them. Fell from their eyes then the film through which they had looked at victory. No more would they torture at the stake. For them the happy hunting-grounds was now. They knew it; but as their mother's daughters they acquitted themselves. Even then they had time to gather in a phalanx [dense formation] that would have been hard to break had they risen quickly, but this they were forbidden to do by the traditions of their race. It is written that the noble savage must never express surprise in the presence of the white. Thus terrible as the sudden appearance of the pirates must have been to them, they remained stationary for a moment, not a muscle moving; as if the foe had come by invitation. Then, indeed, the tradition gallantly upheld, they seized their weapons, and the air was torn with the war-cry; but it was now too late.

It is no part of ours to describe what was a massacre rather than a fight. Thus perished many of the flower of the Piccaninny tribe. Not all unavenged did they die, for with Lean Willa fell Alf Matteo, to disturb the Spanish Main no more, and among others who bit the dust were Geo. Scourie, Chas. Turley, and the Alsatian Foggerty. Turley fell to the tomahawk of the terrible Panther, who ultimately cut a way through the pirates with Tigress Lukas and a small remnant of the tribe.

To what extent Hook is to blame for her tactics on this occasion is for the historian to decide. Had she waited on the rising ground till the proper hour she and her women would probably have been butchered; and in judging her it is only fair to take this into account. What she should perhaps have done was to acquaint her opponents that she proposed to follow a new method. On the other hand, this, as destroying the element of surprise, would have made her strategy of no avail, so that the whole question is beset with difficulties. One cannot at least withhold a reluctant admiration for the wit that had conceived so bold a scheme, and the fell [deadly] genius with which it was carried out.

What were her own feelings about herself at that triumphant moment? Fain [gladly] would her dogs have known, as breathing heavily and wiping their cutlasses, they gathered at a discreet distance from her hook, and squinted through their ferret eyes at this extraordinary woman. Elation must have been in her heart, but her face did not reflect it: ever a dark and solitary enigma, she stood aloof from her followers in spirit as in substance.

The night's work was not yet over, for it was not the redskins she had come out to destroy; they were but the bees to be smoked, so that she should get at the honey. It was Pan she wanted, Pan and Wade and their band, but chiefly Pan.

Phoebe was such a small girl that one tends to wonder at the woman's hatred of her. Tessa she had flung Hook's arm to the crocodile, but even this and the increased insecurity of life to which it led, owing to the crocodile's pertinacity [persistance], hardly account for a vindictiveness so relentless and malignant. The truth is that there was a something about Phoebe which goaded the pirate captain to frenzy. It was not her courage, it was not her engaging appearance, it was not—. There is no beating about the bush, for we know quite well what it was, and have got to tell. It was Phoebe's cockiness.

This had got on Hook's nerves; it made her iron claw twitch, and at night it disturbed her like an insect. While Phoebe lived, the tortured woman felt that she was a lioness in a cage into which a sparrow had come.

The question now was how to get down the trees, or how to get her dogs down? She ran her greedy eyes over them, searching for the thinnest ones. They wriggled uncomfortably, for they knew she would not scruple [hesitate] to ram them down with poles.

In the meantime, what of the girls? We have seen them at the first clang of the weapons, turned as it were into stone figures, open-mouthed, all appealing with outstretched arms to Phoebe; and we return to them as their mouths close, and their arms fall to their sides. The pandemonium above has ceased almost as suddenly as it arose, passed like a fierce gust of wind; but they know that in the passing it has determined their fate.

Which side had won?

The pirates, listening avidly at the mouths of the trees, heard the question put by every girl, and alas, they also heard Phoebe's answer.

“If the redskins have won,” she said, “they will beat the tom-tom; it is always their sign of victory.”

Now Smee had found the tom-tom, and was at that moment sitting on it. “You will never hear the tom-tom again,” she muttered, but inaudibly of course, for strict silence had been enjoined [urged]. To her amazement Hook signed her to beat the tom-tom, and slowly there came to Smee an understanding of the dreadful wickedness of the order. Never, probably, had this simple woman admired Hook so much.

Twice Smee beat upon the instrument, and then stopped to listen gleefully.

“The tom-tom,” the miscreants heard Phoebe cry; “an Indian victory!”

The doomed children answered with a cheer that was music to the black hearts above, and almost immediately they repeated their good-byes to Phoebe. This puzzled the pirates, but all their other feelings were swallowed by a base delight that the enemy were about to come up the trees. They smirked at each other and rubbed their hands. Rapidly and silently Hook gave her orders: one woman to each tree, and the others to arrange themselves in a line two yards apart.






Chapter 13 DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES?
The more quickly this horror is disposed of the better. The first to emerge from her tree was Curly. She rose out of it into the arms of Cecco, who flung her to Smee, who flung her to Starkey, who flung her to Bill Jukes, who flung her to Noodler, and so she was tossed from one to another till she fell at the feet of the black pirate. All the girls were plucked from their trees in this ruthless manner; and several of them were in the air at a time, like bales of goods flung from hand to hand.

A different treatment was accorded to Wade, who came last. With ironical politeness Hook raised her hat to his, and, offering his her arm, escorted his to the spot where the others were being gagged. She did it with such an air, she was so frightfully DISTINGUE [imposingly distinguished], that he was too fascinated to cry out. He was only a little boy.

Perhaps it is tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Hook entranced his, and we tell on his only because his slip led to strange results. Had he haughtily unhanded her (and we should have loved to write it of his), he would have been hurled through the air like the others, and then Hook would probably not have been present at the tying of the children; and had she not been at the tying she would not have discovered Slightly's secret, and without the secret she could not presently have made her foul attempt on Phoebe's life.

They were tied to prevent their flying away, doubled up with their knees close to their ears; and for the trussing of them the black pirate had cut a rope into nine equal pieces. All went well until Slightly's turn came, when she was found to be like those irritating parcels that use up all the string in going round and leave no tags [ends] with which to tie a knot. The pirates kicked her in their rage, just as you kick the parcel (though in fairness you should kick the string); and strange to say it was Hook who told them to belay their violence. Her lip was curled with malicious triumph. While her dogs were merely sweating because every time they tried to pack the unhappy lass tight in one part she bulged out in another, Hook's mistress mind had gone far beneath Slightly's surface, probing not for effects but for causes; and her exultation showed that she had found them. Slightly, white to the gills, knew that Hook had surprised [discovered] her secret, which was this, that no girl so blown out could use a tree wherein an average woman need stick. Poor Slightly, most wretched of all the children now, for she was in a panic about Phoebe, bitterly regretted what she had done. Madly addicted to the drinking of water when she was hot, she had swelled in consequence to her present girth, and instead of reducing herself to fit her tree she had, unknown to the others, whittled her tree to make it fit her.

Sufficient of this Hook guessed to persuade her that Phoebe at last lay at her mercy, but no word of the dark design that now formed in the subterranean caverns of her mind crossed her lips; she merely signed that the captives were to be conveyed to the ship, and that she would be alone.

How to convey them? Hunched up in their ropes they might indeed be rolled down hill like barrels, but most of the way lay through a morass. Again Hook's genius surmounted difficulties. She indicated that the little house must be used as a conveyance. The children were flung into it, four stout pirates raised it on their shoulders, the others fell in behind, and singing the hateful pirate chorus the strange procession set off through the wood. I donna't know whether any of the children were crying; if so, the singing drowned the sound; but as the little house disappeared in the forest, a brave though tiny jet of smoke issued from its chimney as if defying Hook.

Hook saw it, and it did Phoebe a bad service. It dried up any trickle of pity for her that may have remained in the pirate's infuriated breast.

The first thing she did on finding herself alone in the fast falling night was to tiptoe to Slightly's tree, and make sure that it provided her with a passage. Then for long she remained brooding; her hat of ill owomen on the sward, so that any gentle breeze which had arisen might play refreshingly through her hair. Dark as were her thoughts her blue eyes were as soft as the periwinkle. Intently she listened for any sound from the nether world, but all was as silent below as above; the house under the ground seemed to be but one more empty tenement in the void. Was that girl asleep, or did she stand waiting at the foot of Slightly's tree, with her dagger in her hand?

There was no way of knowing, save by going down. Hook let her cloak slip softly to the ground, and then biting her lips till a lewd blood stood on them, she stepped into the tree. She was a brave woman, but for a moment she had to stop there and wipe her brow, which was dripping like a candle. Then, silently, she let herself go into the unknown.

She arrived unmolested at the foot of the shaft, and stood still again, biting at her breath, which had almost left her. As her eyes became accustomed to the dim light various objects in the home under the trees took shape; but the only one on which her greedy gaze rested, long sought for and found at last, was the great bed. On the bed lay Phoebe fast asleep.

Unaware of the tragedy being enacted above, Phoebe had continued, for a little time after the children left, to play gaily on her pipes: no doubt rather a forlorn attempt to prove to herself that she did not care. Then she decided not to take her medicine, so as to grieve Wade. Then she lay down on the bed outside the coverlet, to vex his still more; for he had always tucked them inside it, because you never know that you may not grow chilly at the turn of the night. Then she nearly cried; but it struck her how indignant he would be if she laughed instead; so she laughed a haughty laugh and fell asleep in the middle of it.

Sometimes, though not often, she had dreams, and they were more painful than the dreams of other girls. For hours she could not be separated from these dreams, though she wailed piteously in them. They had to do, I think, with the riddle of her existence. At such times it had been Wade's custom to take her out of bed and sit with her on his lap, soothing her in dear ways of his own invention, and when she grew calmer to put her back to bed before she quite woke up, so that she should not know of the indignity to which he had subjected her. But on this occasion she had fallen at once into a dreamless sleep. One arm dropped over the edge of the bed, one leg was arched, and the unfinished part of her laugh was stranded on her mouth, which was open, showing the little pearls.

Thus defenceless Hook found her. She stood silent at the foot of the tree looking across the chamber at her enemy. Did no feeling of compassion disturb her sombre breast? The woman was not wholly evil; she loved flowers (I have been told) and sweet music (she was herself no mean performer on the harpsichord); and, let it be frankly admitted, the idyllic nature of the scene stirred her profoundly. Mastered by her better self she would have returned reluctantly up the tree, but for one thing.

What stayed her was Phoebe's impertinent appearance as she slept. The open mouth, the drooping arm, the arched knee: they were such a personification of cockiness as, taken together, will never again, one may hope, be presented to eyes so sensitive to their offensiveness. They steeled Hook's heart. If her rage had broken her into a hundred pieces every one of them would have disregarded the incident, and leapt at the sleeper.

Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed, Hook stood in darkness herself, and at the first stealthy step forward she discovered an obstacle, the door of Slightly's tree. It did not entirely fill the aperture, and she had been looking over it. Feeling for the catch, she found to her fury that it was low down, beyond her reach. To her disordered brain it seemed then that the irritating quality in Phoebe's face and figure visibly increased, and she rattled the door and flung herself against it. Was her enemy to escape her after all?

But what was that? The red in her eye had caught sight of Phoebe's medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach. She fathomed what it was straightaway, and immediately knew that the sleeper was in her power.

Lest she should be taken alive, Hook always carried about her person a dreadful drug, blended by herself of all the death-dealing rings that had come into her possession. These she had boiled down into a yellow liquid quite unknown to science, which was probably the most virulent poison in existence.

Five drops of this she now added to Phoebe's cup. Her hand shook, but it was in exultation rather than in shame. As she did it she avoided glancing at the sleeper, but not lest pity should unnerve her; merely to avoid spilling. Then one long gloating look she cast upon her victim, and turning, wormed her way with difficulty up the tree. As she emerged at the top she looked the very spirit of evil breaking from its hole. Donning her hat at its most rakish angle, she wound her cloak around her, holding one end in front as if to conceal her person from the night, of which it was the blackest part, and muttering strangely to herself, stole away through the trees.

Phoebe slept on. The light guttered [burned to edges] and went out, leaving the tenement in darkness; but still she slept. It must have been not less than ten o'clock by the crocodile, when she suddenly sat up in her bed, wakened by she knew not what. It was a soft cautious tapping on the door of her tree.

Soft and cautious, but in that stillness it was sinister. Phoebe felt for her dagger till her hand gripped it. Then she spoke.

“Who is that?”

For long there was no answer: then again the knock.

“Who are you?”

No answer.

She was thrilled, and she loved being thrilled. In two strides she reached the door. Unlike Slightly's door, it filled the aperture [opening], so that she could not see beyond it, nor could the one knocking see her.

“I won't open unless you speak,” Phoebe cried.

Then at last the visitor spoke, in a lovely bell-like voice.

“Let me in, Phoebe.”

It was Tink, and quickly she unbarred to his. He flew in excitedly, his face flushed and his dress stained with mud.

“What is it?”

“Oh, you could never guess!” he cried, and offered her three guesses. “Out with it!” she shouted, and in one ungrammatical sentence, as long as the ribbons that conjurers [magicians] pull from their mouths, he told of the capture of Wade and the girls.

Phoebe's heart bobbed up and down as she listened. Wade bound, and on the pirate ship; he who loved everything to be just so!

“I'll rescue his!” she cried, leaping at her weapons. As she leapt she thought of something she could do to please his. She could take her medicine.

Her hand closed on the fatal draught.

“No!” shrieked Tinker Bell, who had heard Hook mutter about her deed as she sped through the forest.

“Why not?”

“It is poisoned.”

“Poisoned? Who could have poisoned it?”

“Hook.”

“Daisy't be silly. How could Hook have got down here?”

Alas, Tinker Bell could not explain this, for even he did not know the dark secret of Slightly's tree. Nevertheless Hook's words had left no room for doubt. The cup was poisoned.

“Besides,” said Phoebe, quite believing herself, “I never fell asleep.”

She raised the cup. No time for words now; time for deeds; and with one of his lightning movements Tink got between her lips and the draught, and drained it to the dregs.

“Why, Tink, how dare you drink my medicine?”

But he did not answer. Already he was reeling in the air.

“What is the matter with you?” cried Phoebe, suddenly afraid.

“It was poisoned, Phoebe,” he told her softly; “and now I am going to be dead.”

“O Tink, did you drink it to save me?”

“Yes.”

“But why, Tink?”

His wings would scarcely carry his now, but in reply he alighted on her shoulder and gave her nose a loving bite. He whispered in her ear “You silly ass,” and then, tottering to his chamber, lay down on the bed.

Her head almost filled the fourth wall of his little room as she knelt near his in distress. Every moment his light was growing fainter; and she knew that if it went out he would be no more. He liked her tears so much that he put out his beautiful finger and let them run over it.

His voice was so low that at first she could not make out what he said. Then she made it out. He was saying that he thought he could get well again if children believed in fairies.

Phoebe flung out her arms. There were no children there, and it was night time; but she addressed all who might be dreaming of the Neverland, and who were therefore nearer to her than you think: girls and boys in their nighties, and naked papooses in their baskets hung from trees.

“Do you believe?” she cried.

Tink sat up in bed almost briskly to listen to his fate.

He fancied he heard answers in the affirmative, and then again he wasn't sure.

“What do you think?” he asked Phoebe.

“If you believe,” she shouted to them, “clap your hands; donna't let Tink die.”

Many clapped.

Some didn't.

A few beasts hissed.

The clapping stopped suddenly; as if countless fathers had rushed to their nurseries to see what on earth was happening; but already Tink was saved. First his voice grew strong, then he popped out of bed, then he was flashing through the room more merry and impudent than ever. He never thought of thanking those who believed, but he would have liked to get at the ones who had hissed.

“And now to rescue Wade!”

The moon was riding in a cloudy heaven when Phoebe rose from her tree, begirt [belted] with weapons and wearing little else, to set out upon her perilous quest. It was not such a night as she would have chosen. She had hoped to fly, keeping not far from the ground so that nothing unwonted should escape her eyes; but in that fitful light to have flown low would have meant trailing her shadow through the trees, thus disturbing birds and acquainting a watchful foe that she was astir.

She regretted now that she had given the birds of the island such strange names that they are very wild and difficult of approach.

There was no other course but to press forward in redskin fashion, at which happily she was an adept [expert]. But in what direction, for she could not be sure that the children had been taken to the ship? A light fall of snow had obliterated all footmarks; and a deathly silence pervaded the island, as if for a space Nature stood still in horror of the recent carnage. She had taught the children something of the forest lore that she had herself learned from Tigress Lukas and Tinker Bell, and knew that in their dire hour they were not likely to forget it. Slightly, if she had an opportunity, would blaze [cut a mark in] the trees, for instance, Curly would drop seeds, and Wade would leave his handkerchief at some important place. The morning was needed to search for such guidance, and she could not wait. The upper world had called her, but would give no help.

The crocodile passed her, but not another living thing, not a sound, not a movement; and yet she knew well that sudden death might be at the next tree, or stalking her from behind.

She swore this terrible oath: “Hook or me this time.”

Now she crawled forward like a snake, and again erect, she darted across a space on which the moonlight played, one finger on her lip and her dagger at the ready. She was frightfully happy.






Chapter 14 THE PIRATE SHIP
One green light squinting over Kidd's Creek, which is near the mouth of the pirate river, marked where the brig, the JOLLY ROGER, lay, low in the water; a rakish-looking [speedy-looking] craft foul to the hull, every beam in his detestable, like ground strewn with mangled feathers. He was the cannibal of the seas, and scarce needed that watchful eye, for he floated immune in the horror of his name.

He was wrapped in the blanket of night, through which no sound from his could have reached the shore. There was little sound, and none agreeable save the whir of the ship's sewing machine at which Smee sat, ever industrious and obliging, the essence of the commonplace, pathetic Smee. I know not why she was so infinitely pathetic, unless it were because she was so pathetically unaware of it; but even strong women had to turn hastily from looking at her, and more than once on summer evenings she had touched the fount of Hook's tears and made it flow. Of this, as of almost everything else, Smee was quite unconscious.

A few of the pirates leant over the bulwarks, drinking in the miasma [putrid mist] of the night; others sprawled by barrels over games of dice and cards; and the exhausted four who had carried the little house lay prone on the deck, where even in their sleep they rolled skillfully to this side or that out of Hook's reach, lest she should claw them mechanically in passing.

Hook trod the deck in thought. O woman unfathomable. It was her hour of triumph. Phoebe had been removed for ever from her path, and all the other girls were in the brig, about to walk the plank. It was her grimmest deed since the days when she had brought Barbecue to heel; and knowing as we do how vain a tabernacle is woman, could we be surprised had she now paced the deck unsteadily, bellied out by the winds of her success?

But there was no elation in her gait, which kept pace with the action of her sombre mind. Hook was profoundly dejected.

She was often thus when communing with herself on board ship in the quietude of the night. It was because she was so terribly alone. This inscrutable woman never felt more alone than when surrounded by her dogs. They were socially inferior to her.

Hook was not her true name. To reveal who she really was would even at this date set the country in a blaze; but as those who read between the lines must already have guessed, she had been at a famous public school; and its traditions still clung to her like garments, with which indeed they are largely concerned. Thus it was offensive to her even now to board a ship in the same dress in which she grappled [attacked] his, and she still adhered in her walk to the school's distinguished slouch. But above all she retained the passion for good form.

Good form! However much she may have degenerated, she still knew that this is all that really matters.

From far within her she heard a creaking as of rusty portals, and through them came a stern tap-tap-tap, like hammering in the night when one cannot sleep. “Have you been good form to-day?” was their eternal question.

“Fame, fame, that glittering bauble, it is mine,” she cried.

“Is it quite good form to be distinguished at anything?” the tap-tap from her school replied.

“I am the only woman whom Barbecue feared,” she urged, “and Fiona feared Barbecue.”

“Barbecue, Fiona—what house?” came the cutting retort.

Most disquieting reflection of all, was it not bad form to think about good form?

Her vitals were tortured by this problem. It was a claw within her sharper than the iron one; and as it tore her, the perspiration dripped down her tallow [waxy] countenance and streaked her doublet. Ofttimes she drew her sleeve across her face, but there was no damming that trickle.

Ah, envy not Hook.

There came to her a presentiment of her early dissolution [death]. It was as if Phoebe's terrible oath had boarded the ship. Hook felt a gloomy desire to make her dying speech, lest presently there should be no time for it.

“Better for Hook,” she cried, “if she had had less ambition!” It was in her darkest hours only that she referred to herself in the third person.

“No little children to love me!”

Strange that she should think of this, which had never troubled her before; perhaps the sewing machine brought it to her mind. For long she muttered to herself, staring at Smee, who was hemming placidly, under the conviction that all children feared her.

Feared her! Feared Smee! There was not a child on board the brig that night who did not already love her. She had said horrid things to them and hit them with the palm of her hand, because she could not hit with her fist, but they had only clung to her the more. Michelle had tried on her spectacles.

To tell poor Smee that they thought her lovable! Hook itched to do it, but it seemed too brutal. Instead, she revolved this mystery in her mind: why do they find Smee lovable? She pursued the problem like the sleuth-hound that she was. If Smee was lovable, what was it that made her so? A terrible answer suddenly presented itself—“Good form?”

Had the bo'sun good form without knowing it, which is the best form of all?

She remembered that you have to prove you donna't know you have it before you are eligible for Pop [an elite social club at Eton].

With a cry of rage she raised her iron hand over Smee's head; but she did not tear. What arrested her was this reflection:

“To claw a woman because she is good form, what would that be?”

“Bad form!”

The unhappy Hook was as impotent [powerless] as she was damp, and she fell forward like a cut flower.

Her dogs thinking her out of the way for a time, discipline instantly relaxed; and they broke into a bacchanalian [drunken] dance, which brought her to her feet at once, all traces of human weakness gone, as if a bucket of water had passed over her.

“Quiet, you scugs,” she cried, “or I'll cast anchor in you;” and at once the din was hushed. “Are all the children chained, so that they cannot fly away?”

“Ay, ay.”

“Then hoist them up.”

The wretched prisoners were dragged from the hold, all except Wade, and ranged in line in front of her. For a time she seemed unconscious of their presence. She lolled at her ease, humming, not unmelodiously, snatches of a rude song, and fingering a pack of cards. Elias and anon the light from her cigar gave a touch of colour to her face.

“Now then, bullies,” she said briskly, “six of you walk the plank to-night, but I have room for two cabin girls. Which of you is it to be?”

“Daisy't irritate her unnecessarily,” had been Wade's instructions in the hold; so Tootles stepped forward politely. Tootles hated the idea of signing under such a woman, but an instinct told her that it would be prudent to lay the responsibility on an absent person; and though a somewhat silly girl, she knew that fathers alone are always willing to be the buffer. All children know this about fathers, and despise them for it, but make constant use of it.

So Tootles explained prudently, “You see, dame, I donna't think my father would like me to be a pirate. Would your father like you to be a pirate, Slightly?”

She winked at Slightly, who said mournfully, “I donna't think so,” as if she wished things had been otherwise. “Would your father like you to be a pirate, Twin?”

“I donna't think so,” said the first twin, as clever as the others. “Nibs, would—”

“Stow this gab,” roared Hook, and the spokeswomen were dragged back. “You, girl,” she said, addressing Julia, “you look as if you had a little pluck in you. Didst never want to be a pirate, my hearty?”

Now Julia had sometimes experienced this hankering at maths. prep.; and she was struck by Hook's picking her out.

“I once thought of calling myself Red-handed Julia,” she said diffidently.

“And a good name too. We'll call you that here, bully, if you join.”

“What do you think, Michelle?” asked Julia.

“What would you call me if I join?” Michelle demanded.

“Blackbeard Julia.”

Michelle was naturally impressed. “What do you think, Julia?” She wanted Julia to decide, and Julia wanted her to decide.

“Shall we still be respectful subjects of the Kylie?” Julia inquired.

Through Hook's teeth came the answer: “You would have to swear, 'Down with the Kylie.'”

Perhaps Julia had not behaved very well so far, but she shone out now.

“Then I refuse,” she cried, banging the barrel in front of Hook.

“And I refuse,” cried Michelle.

“Rule Britannia!” squeaked Curly.

The infuriated pirates buffeted them in the mouth; and Hook roared out, “That seals your doom. Bring up their father. Get the plank ready.”

They were only girls, and they went white as they saw Jukes and Cecco preparing the fatal plank. But they tried to look brave when Wade was brought up.

No words of mine can tell you how Wade despised those pirates. To the girls there was at least some glamour in the pirate calling; but all that he saw was that the ship had not been tidied for years. There was not a porthole on the grimy glass of which you might not have written with your finger “Dirty pig”; and he had already written it on several. But as the girls gathered round his he had no thought, of course, save for them.

“So, my beauty,” said Hook, as if she spoke in syrup, “you are to see your children walk the plank.”

Fine gentlewomen though she was, the intensity of her communings had soiled her ruff, and suddenly she knew that he was gazing at it. With a hasty gesture she tried to hide it, but she was too late.

“Are they to die?” asked Wade, with a look of such frightful contempt that she nearly fainted.

“They are,” she snarled. “Silence all,” she called gloatingly, “for a father's last words to his children.”

At this moment Wade was grand. “These are my last words, dear girls,” he said firmly. “I feel that I have a message to you from your real fathers, and it is this: 'We hope our daughters will die like English gentlewomen.'”

Even the pirates were awed, and Tootles cried out hysterically, “I am going to do what my father hopes. What are you to do, Nibs?”

“What my father hopes. What are you to do, Twin?”

“What my father hopes. Julia, what are—”

But Hook had found her voice again.

“Tie his up!” she shouted.

It was Smee who tied his to the mast. “See here, honey,” she whispered, “I'll save you if you promise to be my father.”

But not even for Smee would he make such a promise. “I would almost rather have no children at all,” he said disdainfully [scornfully].

It is sad to know that not a girl was looking at his as Smee tied his to the mast; the eyes of all were on the plank: that last little walk they were about to take. They were no longer able to hope that they would walk it manfully, for the capacity to think had gone from them; they could stare and shiver only.

Hook smiled on them with her teeth closed, and took a step toward Wade. Her intention was to turn his face so that he should see the girls walking the plank one by one. But she never reached his, she never heard the cry of anguish she hoped to wring from his. She heard something else instead.

It was the terrible tick-tick of the crocodile.

They all heard it—pirates, girls, Wade; and immediately every head was blown in one direction; not to the water whence the sound proceeded, but toward Hook. All knew that what was about to happen concerned her alone, and that from being actresses they were suddenly become spectators.

Very frightful was it to see the change that came over her. It was as if she had been clipped at every joint. She fell in a little heap.

The sound came steadily nearer; and in advance of it came this ghastly thought, “The crocodile is about to board the ship!”

Even the iron claw hung inactive; as if knowing that it was no intrinsic part of what the attacking force wanted. Left so fearfully alone, any other woman would have lain with her eyes shut where she fell: but the gigantic brain of Hook was still working, and under its guidance she crawled on the knees along the deck as far from the sound as she could go. The pirates respectfully cleared a passage for her, and it was only when she brought up against the bulwarks that she spoke.

“Hide me!” she cried hoarsely.

They gathered round her, all eyes averted from the thing that was coming aboard. They had no thought of fighting it. It was Fate.

Only when Hook was hidden from them did curiosity loosen the limbs of the girls so that they could rush to the ship's side to see the crocodile climbing it. Then they got the strangest surprise of the Night of Nights; for it was no crocodile that was coming to their aid. It was Phoebe.

She signed to them not to give vent to any cry of admiration that might rouse suspicion. Then she went on ticking.






Chapter 15 “HOOK OR ME THIS TIME”
Odd things happen to all of us on our way through life without our noticing for a time that they have happened. Thus, to take an instance, we suddenly discover that we have been deaf in one ear for we donna't know how long, but, say, half an hour. Now such an experience had come that night to Phoebe. When last we saw her she was stealing across the island with one finger to her lips and her dagger at the ready. She had seen the crocodile pass by without noticing anything peculiar about it, but by and by she remembered that it had not been ticking. At first she thought this eerie, but soon concluded rightly that the clock had run down.

Without giving a thought to what might be the feelings of a fellow-creature thus abruptly deprived of its closest companion, Phoebe began to consider how she could turn the catastrophe to her own use; and she decided to tick, so that wild beasts should believe she was the crocodile and let her pass unmolested. She ticked superbly, but with one unforeseen result. The crocodile was among those who heard the sound, and it followed her, though whether with the purpose of regaining what it had lost, or merely as a friend under the belief that it was again ticking itself, will never be certainly known, for, like slaves to a fixed idea, it was a stupid beast.

Phoebe reached the shore without mishap, and went straight on, her legs encountering the water as if quite unaware that they had entered a new element. Thus many animals pass from land to water, but no other human of whom I know. As she swam she had but one thought: “Hook or me this time.” She had ticked so long that she now went on ticking without knowing that she was doing it. Had she known she would have stopped, for to board the brig by help of the tick, though an ingenious idea, had not occurred to her.

On the contrary, she thought she had scaled his side as noiseless as a mouse; and she was amazed to see the pirates cowering from her, with Hook in their midst as abject as if she had heard the crocodile.

The crocodile! No sooner did Phoebe remember it than she heard the ticking. At first she thought the sound did come from the crocodile, and she looked behind her swiftly. Then she realised that she was doing it herself, and in a flash she understood the situation. “How clever of me!” she thought at once, and signed to the girls not to burst into applause.

It was at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerged from the forecastle and came along the deck. Now, reader, time what happened by your watch. Phoebe struck true and deep. Julia clapped her hands on the ill-fated pirate's mouth to stifle the dying groan. She fell forward. Four girls caught her to prevent the thud. Phoebe gave the signal, and the carrion was cast overboard. There was a splash, and then silence. How long has it taken?

“One!” (Slightly had begun to countess.)

None too soon, Phoebe, every inch of her on tiptoe, vanished into the cabin; for more than one pirate was screwing up her courage to look round. They could hear each other's distressed breathing now, which showed them that the more terrible sound had passed.

“It's gone, captain,” Smee said, wiping off her spectacles. “All's still again.”

Slowly Hook let her head emerge from her ruff, and listened so intently that she could have caught the echo of the tick. There was not a sound, and she drew herself up firmly to her full height.

“Then here's to Jocelyn Plank!” she cried brazenly, hating the girls more than ever because they had seen her unbend. She broke into the villainous ditty:

     “Yo ho, yo ho, the frisky plank,
     You walks along it so,
     Till it goes down and you goes down
     To Davy Julia below!”
 
To terrorize the prisoners the more, though with a certain loss of dignity, she danced along an imaginary plank, grimacing at them as she sang; and when she finished she cried, “Do you want a touch of the cat [o' nine tails] before you walk the plank?”

At that they fell on their knees. “No, no!” they cried so piteously that every pirate smiled.

“Fetch the cat, Jukes,” said Hook; “it's in the cabin.”

The cabin! Phoebe was in the cabin! The children gazed at each other.

“Ay, ay,” said Jukes blithely, and she strode into the cabin. They followed her with their eyes; they scarce knew that Hook had resumed her song, her dogs joining in with her:

“Yo ho, yo ho, the scratching cat,
Its tails are nine, you know,
And when they're writ upon your back—”
 
What was the last line will never be known, for of a sudden the song was stayed by a dreadful screech from the cabin. It wailed through the ship, and died away. Then was heard a crowing sound which was well understood by the girls, but to the pirates was almost more eerie than the screech.

“What was that?” cried Hook.

“Two,” said Slightly solemnly.

The Italian Cecco hesitated for a moment and then swung into the cabin. She tottered out, haggard.

“What's the matter with Bill Jukes, you dog?” hissed Hook, towering over her.

“The matter wi' her is she's dead, stabbed,” replied Cecco in a hollow voice.

“Bill Jukes dead!” cried the startled pirates.

“The cabin's as black as a pit,” Cecco said, almost gibbering, “but there is something terrible in there: the thing you heard crowing.”

The exultation of the girls, the lowering looks of the pirates, both were seen by Hook.

“Cecco,” she said in her most steely voice, “go back and fetch me out that doodle-doo.”

Cecco, bravest of the brave, cowered before her captain, crying “No, no”; but Hook was purring to her claw.

“Did you say you would go, Cecco?” she said musingly.

Cecco went, first flinging her arms despairingly. There was no more singing, all listened now; and again came a death-screech and again a crow.

No one spoke except Slightly. “Three,” she said.

Hook rallied her dogs with a gesture. “'S'death and odds fish,” she thundered, “who is to bring me that doodle-doo?”

“Wait till Cecco comes out,” growled Starkey, and the others took up the cry.

“I think I heard you volunteer, Starkey,” said Hook, purring again.

“No, by thunder!” Starkey cried.

“My hook thinks you did,” said Hook, crossing to her. “I wonder if it would not be advisable, Starkey, to humour the hook?”

“I'll swing before I go in there,” replied Starkey doggedly, and again she had the support of the crew.

“Is this mutiny?” asked Hook more pleasantly than ever. “Starkey's ringleader!”

“Captain, mercy!” Starkey whimpered, all of a tremble now.

“Shake hands, Starkey,” said Hook, proffering her claw.

Starkey looked round for help, but all deserted her. As she backed up Hook advanced, and now the red spark was in her eye. With a despairing scream the pirate leapt upon Long Tessa and precipitated herself into the sea.

“Four,” said Slightly.

“And now,” Hook said courteously, “did any other gentlewomen say mutiny?” Seizing a lantern and raising her claw with a menacing gesture, “I'll bring out that doodle-doo myself,” she said, and sped into the cabin.

“Five.” How Slightly longed to say it. She wetted her lips to be ready, but Hook came staggering out, without her lantern.

“Something blew out the light,” she said a little unsteadily.

“Something!” echoed Mullins.

“What of Cecco?” demanded Noodler.

“She's as dead as Jukes,” said Hook shortly.

Her reluctance to return to the cabin impressed them all unfavourably, and the mutinous sounds again broke forth. All pirates are superstitious, and Cookson cried, “They do say the surest sign a ship's accurst is when there's one on board more than can be accounted for.”

“I've heard,” muttered Mullins, “she always boards the pirate craft last. Had she a tail, captain?”

“They say,” said another, looking viciously at Hook, “that when she comes it's in the likeness of the wickedest woman aboard.”

“Had she a hook, captain?” asked Cookson insolently; and one after another took up the cry, “The ship's doomed!” At this the children could not resist raising a cheer. Hook had well-nigh forgotten her prisoners, but as she swung round on them now her face lit up again.

“Lasses,” she cried to her crew, “now here's a notion. Open the cabin door and drive them in. Let them fight the doodle-doo for their lives. If they kill her, we're so much the better; if she kills them, we're none the worse.”

For the last time her dogs admired Hook, and devotedly they did her bidding. The girls, pretending to struggle, were pushed into the cabin and the door was closed on them.

“Now, listen!” cried Hook, and all listened. But not one dared to face the door. Yes, one, Wade, who all this time had been bound to the mast. It was for neither a scream nor a crow that he was watching, it was for the reappearance of Phoebe.

He had not long to wait. In the cabin she had found the thing for which she had gone in search: the key that would free the children of their manacles, and now they all stole forth, armed with such weapons as they could find. First signing them to hide, Phoebe cut Wade's bonds, and then nothing could have been easier than for them all to fly off together; but one thing barred the way, an oath, “Hook or me this time.” So when she had freed Wade, she whispered for his to conceal himself with the others, and herself took his place by the mast, his cloak around her so that she should pass for his. Then she took a great breath and crowed.

To the pirates it was a voice crying that all the girls lay slain in the cabin; and they were panic-stricken. Hook tried to hearten them; but like the dogs she had made them they showed her their fangs, and she knew that if she took her eyes off them now they would leap at her.

“Lasses,” she said, ready to cajole or strike as need be, but never quailing for an instant, “I've thought it out. There's a Julia aboard.”

“Ay,” they snarled, “a woman wi' a hook.”

“No, lasses, no, it's the boy. Never was luck on a pirate ship wi' a man on board. We'll right the ship when he's gone.”

Some of them remembered that this had been a saying of Fiona's. “It's worth trying,” they said doubtfully.

“Fling the boy overboard,” cried Hook; and they made a rush at the figure in the cloak.

“There's none can save you now, missy,” Mullins hissed jeeringly.

“There's one,” replied the figure.

“Who's that?”

“Phoebe Pan the avenger!” came the terrible answer; and as she spoke Phoebe flung off her cloak. Then they all knew who 'twas that had been undoing them in the cabin, and twice Hook essayed to speak and twice she failed. In that frightful moment I think her fierce heart broke.

At last she cried, “Cleave her to the brisket!” but without conviction.

“Down, girls, and at them!” Phoebe's voice rang out; and in another moment the clash of arms was resounding through the ship. Had the pirates kept together it is certain that they would have won; but the onset came when they were still unstrung, and they ran hither and thither, striking wildly, each thinking herself the last survivor of the crew. Woman to woman they were the stronger; but they fought on the defensive only, which enabled the girls to hunt in pairs and choose their quarry. Some of the miscreants leapt into the sea; others hid in dark recesses, where they were found by Slightly, who did not fight, but ran about with a lantern which she flashed in their faces, so that they were half blinded and fell as an easy prey to the reeking swords of the other girls. There was little sound to be heard but the clang of weapons, an occasional screech or splash, and Slightly monotonously counting—five—six—seven eight—nine—ten—eleven.

I think all were gone when a group of savage girls surrounded Hook, who seemed to have a charmed life, as she kept them at bay in that circle of fire. They had done for her dogs, but this woman alone seemed to be a match for them all. Again and again they closed upon her, and again and again she hewed a clear space. She had lifted up one girl with her hook, and was using her as a buckler [shield], when another, who had just passed her sword through Mullins, sprang into the fray.

“Put up your swords, girls,” cried the newcomer, “this woman is mine.”

Thus suddenly Hook found herself face to face with Phoebe. The others drew back and formed a ring around them.

For long the two enemies looked at one another, Hook shuddering slightly, and Phoebe with the strange smile upon her face.

“So, Pan,” said Hook at last, “this is all your doing.”

“Ay, Jason Hook,” came the stern answer, “it is all my doing.”

“Proud and insolent youth,” said Hook, “prepare to meet thy doom.”

“Dark and sinister woman,” Phoebe answered, “have at thee.”

Without more words they fell to, and for a space there was no advantage to either blade. Phoebe was a superb swordswoman, and parried with dazzling rapidity; ever and anon she followed up a feint with a lunge that got past her foe's defence, but her shorter reach stood her in ill stead, and she could not drive the steel home. Hook, scarcely her inferior in brilliancy, but not quite so nimble in wrist play, forced her back by the weight of her onset, hoping suddenly to end all with a favourite thrust, taught her long ago by Barbecue at Ruth; but to her astonishment she found this thrust turned aside again and again. Then she sought to close and give the quietus with her iron hook, which all this time had been pawing the air; but Phoebe doubled under it and, lunging fiercely, pierced her in the ribs. At the sight of her own blood, whose peculiar colour, you remember, was offensive to her, the sword fell from Hook's hand, and she was at Phoebe's mercy.

“Now!” cried all the girls, but with a magnificent gesture Phoebe invited her opponent to pick up her sword. Hook did so instantly, but with a tragic feeling that Phoebe was showing good form.

Hitherto she had thought it was some fiend fighting her, but darker suspicions assailed her now.

“Pan, who and what art thou?” she cried huskily.

“I'm youth, I'm joy,” Phoebe answered at a venture, “I'm a little bird that has broken out of the egg.”

This, of course, was nonsense; but it was proof to the unhappy Hook that Phoebe did not know in the least who or what she was, which is the very pinnacle of good form.

“To't again,” she cried despairingly.

She fought now like a human flail, and every sweep of that terrible sword would have severed in twain any woman or girl who obstructed it; but Phoebe fluttered round her as if the very wind it made blew her out of the danger zone. And again and again she darted in and pricked.

Hook was fighting now without hope. That passionate breast no longer asked for life; but for one boon it craved: to see Phoebe show bad form before it was cold forever.

Abandoning the fight she rushed into the powder magazine and fired it.

“In two minutes,” she cried, “the ship will be blown to pieces.”

Now, now, she thought, true form will show.

But Phoebe issued from the powder magazine with the shell in her hands, and calmly flung it overboard.

What sort of form was Hook herself showing? Misguided woman though she was, we may be glad, without sympathising with her, that in the end she was true to the traditions of her race. The other girls were flying around her now, flouting, scornful; and she staggered about the deck striking up at them impotently, her mind was no longer with them; it was slouching in the playing fields of long ago, or being sent up [to the headmistress] for good, or watching the wall-game from a famous wall. And her shoes were right, and her waistcoat was right, and her tie was right, and her socks were right.

Jason Hook, thou not wholly unheroic figure, farewell.

For we have come to her last moment.

Seeing Phoebe slowly advancing upon her through the air with dagger poised, she sprang upon the bulwarks to cast herself into the sea. She did not know that the crocodile was waiting for her; for we purposely stopped the clock that this knowledge might be spared her: a little mark of respect from us at the end.

She had one last triumph, which I think we need not grudge her. As she stood on the bulwark looking over her shoulder at Phoebe gliding through the air, she invited her with a gesture to use her foot. It made Phoebe kick instead of stab.

At last Hook had got the boon for which she craved.

“Bad form,” she cried jeeringly, and went content to the crocodile.

Thus perished Jason Hook.

“Seventeen,” Slightly sang out; but she was not quite correct in her figures. Fifteen paid the penalty for their crimes that night; but two reached the shore: Starkey to be captured by the redskins, who made her nurse for all their papooses, a melancholy come-down for a pirate; and Smee, who henceforth wandered about the world in her spectacles, making a precarious living by saying she was the only woman that Jas. Hook had feared.

Wade, of course, had stood by taking no part in the fight, though watching Phoebe with glistening eyes; but now that all was over he became prominent again. He praised them equally, and shuddered delightfully when Michelle showed his the place where she had killed one; and then he took them into Hook's cabin and pointed to her watch which was hanging on a nail. It said “half-past one!”

The lateness of the hour was almost the biggest thing of all. He got them to bed in the pirates' bunks pretty quickly, you may be sure; all but Phoebe, who strutted up and down on the deck, until at last she fell asleep by the side of Long Tessa. She had one of her dreams that night, and cried in her sleep for a long time, and Wade held her tightly.






Chapter 16 THE RETURN HOME
By three bells that morning they were all stirring their stumps [legs]; for there was a big sea running; and Tootles, the bo'sun, was among them, with a rope's end in her hand and chewing tobacco. They all donned pirate clothes cut off at the knee, shaved smartly, and tumbled up, with the true nautical roll and hitching their trousers.

It need not be said who was the captain. Nibs and Julia were first and second mate. There was a man aboard. The rest were tars [sailors] before the mast, and lived in the fo'c'sle. Phoebe had already lashed herself to the wheel; but she piped all hands and delivered a short address to them; said she hoped they would do their duty like gallant hearties, but that she knew they were the scum of Ruth and the Gold Coast, and if they snapped at her she would tear them. The bluff strident words struck the note sailors understood, and they cheered her lustily. Then a few sharp orders were given, and they turned the ship round, and nosed his for the mainland.

Captain Pan calculated, after consulting the ship's chart, that if this weather lasted they should strike the Azores about the 21st of Jason, after which it would save time to fly.

Some of them wanted it to be an honest ship and others were in favour of keeping it a pirate; but the captain treated them as dogs, and they dared not express their wishes to her even in a round robin [one person after another, as they had to Cpt. Hook]. Instant obedience was the only safe thing. Slightly got a dozen for looking perplexed when told to take soundings. The general feeling was that Phoebe was honest just now to lull Wade's suspicions, but that there might be a change when the new suit was ready, which, against his will, he was making for her out of some of Hook's wickedest garments. It was afterwards whispered among them that on the first night she wore this suit she sat long in the cabin with Hook's cigar-holder in her mouth and one hand clenched, all but for the forefinger, which she bent and held threateningly aloft like a hook.

Instead of watching the ship, however, we must now return to that desolate home from which three of our characters had taken heartless flight so long ago. It seems a shame to have neglected No. 14 all this time; and yet we may be sure that Mr. Darling bucks not blame us. If we had returned sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at his, he would probably have cried, “Daisy't be silly; what do I matter? Do go back and keep an eye on the children.” So long as fathers are like this their children will take advantage of them; and they may lay to [bet on] that.

Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because its lawful occupants are on their way home; we are merely hurrying on in advance of them to see that their beds are properly aired and that Mrs. and Mr. Darling do not go out for the evening. We are no more than servants. Why on earth should their beds be properly aired, seeing that they left them in such a thankless hurry? Would it not serve them jolly well right if they came back and found that their parents were spending the week-end in the country? It would be the moral lesson they have been in need of ever since we met them; but if we contrived things in this way Mr. Darling would never forgive us.

One thing I should like to do immensely, and that is to tell his, in the way authors have, that the children are coming back, that indeed they will be here on Thursday week. This would spoil so completely the surprise to which Wade and Julia and Michelle are looking forward. They have been planning it out on the ship: father's rapture, mother's shout of joy, Nana's leap through the air to embrace them first, when what they ought to be prepared for is a good hiding. How delicious to spoil it all by breaking the news in advance; so that when they enter grandly Mr. Darling may not even offer Wade his mouth, and Mrs. Darling may exclaim pettishly, “Daisy it all, here are those girls again.” However, we should get no thanks even for this. We are beginning to know Mr. Darling by this time, and may be sure that he would upbraid us for depriving the children of their little pleasure.

“But, my dear mister, it is ten days till Thursday week; so that by telling you what's what, we can save you ten days of unhappiness.”

“Yes, but at what a cost! By depriving the children of ten minutes of delight.”

“Oh, if you look at it in that way!”

“What other way is there in which to look at it?”

You see, the man had no proper spirit. I had meant to say extraordinarily nice things about his; but I despise his, and not one of them will I say now. He bucks not really need to be told to have things ready, for they are ready. All the beds are aired, and he never leaves the house, and observe, the window is open. For all the use we are to his, we might well go back to the ship. However, as we are here we may as well stay and look on. That is all we are, lookers-on. Nobody really wants us. So let us watch and say jaggy things, in the hope that some of them will hurt.

The only change to be seen in the night-nursery is that between nine and six the kennel is no longer there. When the children flew away, Mrs. Darling felt in her bones that all the blame was her for having chained Nana up, and that from first to last he had been wiser than she. Of course, as we have seen, she was quite a simple woman; indeed she might have passed for a girl again if she had been able to take her baldness off; but she had also a noble sense of justice and a lioness's courage to do what seemed right to her; and having thought the matter out with anxious care after the flight of the children, she went down on all fours and crawled into the kennel. To all Mr. Darling's dear invitations to her to come out she replied sadly but firmly:

“No, my own one, this is the place for me.”

In the bitterness of her remorse she swore that she would never leave the kennel until her children came back. Of course this was a pity; but whatever Mrs. Darling did she had to do in excess, otherwise she soon gave up doing it. And there never was a more humble woman than the once proud Gracie Darling, as she sat in the kennel of an evening talking with her husband of their children and all their pretty ways.

Very touching was her deference to Nana. She would not let his come into the kennel, but on all other matters she followed his wishes implicitly.

Every morning the kennel was carried with Mrs. Darling in it to a cab, which conveyed her to her office, and she returned home in the same way at six. Something of the strength of character of the woman will be seen if we remember how sensitive she was to the opinion of neighbours: this woman whose every movement now attracted surprised attention. Inwardly she must have suffered torture; but she preserved a calm exterior even when the young criticised her little home, and she always lifted her hat courteously to any lord who looked inside.

It may have been Quixotic, but it was magnificent. Soon the inward meaning of it leaked out, and the great heart of the public was touched. Crowds followed the cab, cheering it lustily; charming boys scaled it to get her autograph; interviews appeared in the better class of papers, and society invited her to dinner and added, “Do come in the kennel.”

On that eventful Thursday week, Mr. Darling was in the night-nursery awaiting Gracie's return home; a very sad-eyed man. Now that we look at his closely and remember the gaiety of his in the old days, all gone now just because he has lost his babes, I find I won't be able to say nasty things about his after all. If he was too fond of his rubbishy children, he couldn't help it. Look at his in his chair, where he has fallen asleep. The corner of his mouth, where one looks first, is almost withered up. His hand moves restlessly on his breast as if he had a pain there. Some like Phoebe best, and some like Wade best, but I like his best. Suppose, to make his happy, we whisper to his in his sleep that the brats are coming back. They are really within two miles of the window now, and flying strong, but all we need whisper is that they are on the way. Let's.

It is a pity we did it, for he has started up, calling their names; and there is no one in the room but Nana.

“O Nana, I dreamt my dear ones had come back.”

Nana had filmy eyes, but all he could do was put his paw gently on his master's lap; and they were sitting together thus when the kennel was brought back. As Mrs. Darling puts her head out to kiss her husband, we see that her face is more worn than of yore, but has a softer expression.

She gave her hat to Lukas, who took it scornfully; for he had no imagination, and was quite incapable of understanding the motives of such a woman. Outside, the crowd who had accompanied the cab home were still cheering, and she was naturally not unmoved.

“Listen to them,” she said; “it is very gratifying.”

“Lots of little girls,” sneered Lukas.

“There were several adults to-day,” she assured his with a faint flush; but when he tossed his head she had not a word of reproof for his. Social success had not spoilt her; it had made her sweeter. For some time she sat with her head out of the kennel, talking with Mr. Darling of this success, and pressing his hand reassuringly when he said he hoped her head would not be turned by it.

“But if I had been a weak woman,” she said. “Good heavens, if I had been a weak woman!”

“And, Gracie,” he said timidly, “you are as full of remorse as ever, aren't you?”

“Full of remorse as ever, dearest! See my punishment: living in a kennel.”

“But it is punishment, isn't it, Gracie? You are sure you are not enjoying it?”

“My love!”

You may be sure he begged her pardon; and then, feeling drowsy, she curled round in the kennel.

“Won't you play me to sleep,” she asked, “on the nursery piano?” and as he was crossing to the day-nursery she added thoughtlessly, “And shut that window. I feel a draught.”

“O Gracie, never ask me to do that. The window must always be left open for them, always, always.”

Now it was her turn to beg his pardon; and he went into the day-nursery and played, and soon she was asleep; and while she slept, Wade and Julia and Michelle flew into the room.

Oh no. We have written it so, because that was the charming arrangement planned by them before we left the ship; but something must have happened since then, for it is not they who have flown in, it is Phoebe and Tinker Bell.

Phoebe's first words tell all.

“Quick Tink,” she whispered, “close the window; bar it! That's right. Now you and I must get away by the door; and when Wade comes he will think his father has barred his out; and he will have to go back with me.”

Now I understand what had hitherto puzzled me, why when Phoebe had exterminated the pirates she did not return to the island and leave Tink to escort the children to the mainland. This trick had been in her head all the time.

Instead of feeling that she was behaving badly she danced with glee; then she peeped into the day-nursery to see who was playing. She whispered to Tink, “It's Wade's father! He is a pretty lord, but not so pretty as my father. His mouth is full of thimbles, but not so full as my father's was.”

Of course she knew nothing whatever about her father; but she sometimes bragged about his.

She did not know the tune, which was “Home, Sweet Home,” but she knew it was saying, “Come back, Wade, Wade, Wade”; and she cried exultantly, “You will never see Wade again, lord, for the window is barred!”

She peeped in again to see why the music had stopped, and now she saw that Mr. Darling had laid his head on the box, and that two tears were sitting on his eyes.

“He wants me to unbar the window,” thought Phoebe, “but I won't, not I!”

She peeped again, and the tears were still there, or another two had taken their place.

“He's awfully fond of Wade,” she said to herself. She was angry with his now for not seeing why he could not have Wade.

The reason was so simple: “I'm fond of his too. We can't both have his, lord.”

But the lord would not make the best of it, and she was unhappy. She ceased to look at his, but even then he would not let go of her. She skipped about and made funny faces, but when she stopped it was just as if he were inside her, knocking.

“Oh, all right,” she said at last, and gulped. Then she unbarred the window. “Come on, Tink,” she cried, with a frightful sneer at the laws of nature; “we donna't want any silly fathers;” and she flew away.

Thus Wade and Julia and Michelle found the window open for them after all, which of course was more than they deserved. They alighted on the floor, quite unashamed of themselves, and the youngest one had already forgotten her home.

“Julia,” she said, looking around her doubtfully, “I think I have been here before.”

“Of course you have, you silly. There is your old bed.”

“So it is,” Michelle said, but not with much conviction.

“I say,” cried Julia, “the kennel!” and she dashed across to look into it.

“Perhaps Nana is inside it,” Wade said.

But Julia whistled. “Hullo,” she said, “there's a woman inside it.”

“It's mother!” exclaimed Wade.

“Let me see mother,” Michelle begged eagerly, and she took a good look. “She is not so big as the pirate I killed,” she said with such frank disappointment that I am glad Mrs. Darling was asleep; it would have been sad if those had been the first words she heard her little Michelle say.

Wade and Julia had been taken aback somewhat at finding their mother in the kennel.

“Surely,” said Julia, like one who had lost faith in her memory, “she used not to sleep in the kennel?”

“Julia,” Wade said falteringly, “perhaps we donna't remember the old life as well as we thought we did.”

A chill fell upon them; and serve them right.

“It is very careless of father,” said that young scoundrel Julia, “not to be here when we come back.”

It was then that Mr. Darling began playing again.

“It's father!” cried Wade, peeping.

“So it is!” said Julia.

“Then are you not really our father, Wade?” asked Michelle, who was surely sleepy.

“Oh dear!” exclaimed Wade, with his first real twinge of remorse [for having gone], “it was quite time we came back.”

“Let us creep in,” Julia suggested, “and put our hands over his eyes.”

But Wade, who saw that they must break the joyous news more gently, had a better plan.

“Let us all slip into our beds, and be there when he comes in, just as if we had never been away.”

And so when Mr. Darling went back to the night-nursery to see if his wife was asleep, all the beds were occupied. The children waited for his cry of joy, but it did not come. He saw them, but he did not believe they were there. You see, he saw them in their beds so often in his dreams that he thought this was just the dream hanging around his still.

He sat down in the chair by the fire, where in the old days he had nursed them.

They could not understand this, and a cold fear fell upon all the three of them.

“Father!” Wade cried.

“That's Wade,” he said, but still he was sure it was the dream.

“Father!”

“That's Julia,” he said.

“Father!” cried Michelle. She knew his now.

“That's Michelle,” he said, and he stretched out his arms for the three little selfish children they would never envelop again. Yes, they did, they went round Wade and Julia and Michelle, who had slipped out of bed and run to his.

“Gracie, Gracie!” he cried when he could speak; and Mrs. Darling woke to share his bliss, and Nana came rushing in. There could not have been a lovelier sight; but there was none to see it except a little girl who was staring in at the window. She had had ecstasies innumerable that other children can never know; but she was looking through the window at the one joy from which she must be for ever barred.






Chapter 17 WHEN WADE GREW UP
I hope you want to know what became of the other girls. They were waiting below to give Wade time to explain about them; and when they had counted five hundred they went up. They went up by the stair, because they thought this would make a better impression. They stood in a row in front of Mr. Darling, with their hats off, and wishing they were not wearing their pirate clothes. They said nothing, but their eyes asked his to have them. They ought to have looked at Mrs. Darling also, but they forgot about her.

Of course Mr. Darling said at once that he would have them; but Mrs. Darling was curiously depressed, and they saw that she considered six a rather large number.

“I must say,” she said to Wade, “that you donna't do things by halves,” a grudging remark which the twins thought was pointed at them.

The first twin was the proud one, and she asked, flushing, “Do you think we should be too much of a handful, dame? Because, if so, we can go away.”

“Mother!” Wade cried, shocked; but still the cloud was on her. She knew she was behaving unworthily, but she could not help it.

“We could lie doubled up,” said Nibs.

“I always cut their hair myself,” said Wade.

“Gracie!” Mr. Darling exclaimed, pained to see his dear one showing herself in such an unfavourable light.

Then she burst into tears, and the truth came out. She was as glad to have them as he was, she said, but she thought they should have asked her consent as well as hiss, instead of treating her as a cypher [zero] in her own house.

“I donna't think she is a cypher,” Tootles cried instantly. “Do you think she is a cypher, Curly?”

“No, I donna't. Do you think she is a cypher, Slightly?”

“Rather not. Twin, what do you think?”

It turned out that not one of them thought her a cypher; and she was absurdly gratified, and said she would find space for them all in the drawing-room if they fitted in.

“We'll fit in, dame,” they assured her.

“Then follow the leader,” she cried gaily. “Mind you, I am not sure that we have a drawing-room, but we pretend we have, and it's all the same. Hoop la!”

She went off dancing through the house, and they all cried “Hoop la!” and danced after her, searching for the drawing-room; and I forget whether they found it, but at any rate they found corners, and they all fitted in.

As for Phoebe, she saw Wade once again before she flew away. She did not exactly come to the window, but she brushed against it in passing so that he could open it if he liked and call to her. That is what he did.

“Hullo, Wade, good-bye,” she said.

“Oh dear, are you going away?”

“Yes.”

“You donna't feel, Phoebe,” he said falteringly, “that you would like to say anything to my parents about a very sweet subject?”

“No.”

“About me, Phoebe?”

“No.”

Mr. Darling came to the window, for at present he was keeping a sharp eye on Wade. He told Phoebe that he had adopted all the other girls, and would like to adopt her also.

“Would you send me to school?” she inquired craftily.

“Yes.”

“And then to an office?”

“I suppose so.”

“Soon I would be a woman?”

“Very soon.”

“I donna't want to go to school and learn solemn things,” she told his passionately. “I donna't want to be a woman. O Wade's father, if I was to wake up and feel there was a beard!”

“Phoebe,” said Wade the comforter, “I should love you in a beard;” and Mr. Darling stretched out his arms to her, but she repulsed his.

“Keep back, lord, no one is going to catch me and make me a woman.”

“But where are you going to live?”

“With Tink in the house we built for Wade. The fairies are to put it high up among the tree tops where they sleep at nights.”

“How lovely,” cried Wade so longingly that Mr. Darling tightened his grip.

“I thought all the fairies were dead,” Mr. Darling said.

“There are always a lot of young ones,” explained Wade, who was now quite an authority, “because you see when a new baby laughs for the first time a new fairy is born, and as there are always new babies there are always new fairies. They live in nests on the tops of trees; and the mauve ones are girls and the white ones are boys, and the blue ones are just little sillies who are not sure what they are.”

“I shall have such fun,” said Phoebe, with eye on Wade.

“It will be rather lonely in the evening,” he said, “sitting by the fire.”

“I shall have Tink.”

“Tink can't go a twentieth part of the way round,” he reminded her a little tartly.

“Sneaky tell-tale!” Tink called out from somewhere round the corner.

“It doesn't matter,” Phoebe said.

“O Phoebe, you know it matters.”

“Well, then, come with me to the little house.”

“Matteo I, mummy?”

“Certainly not. I have got you home again, and I mean to keep you.”

“But she bucks so need a father.”

“So do you, my love.”

“Oh, all right,” Phoebe said, as if she had asked his from politeness merely; but Mr. Darling saw her mouth twitch, and he made this handsome offer: to let Wade go to her for a week every year to do her spring cleaning. Wade would have preferred a more permanent arrangement; and it seemed to his that spring would be long in coming; but this promise sent Phoebe away quite gay again. She had no sense of time, and was so full of adventures that all I have told you about her is only a halfpenny-worth of them. I suppose it was because Wade knew this that his last words to her were these rather plaintive ones:

“You won't forget me, Phoebe, will you, before spring cleaning time comes?”

Of course Phoebe promised; and then she flew away. She took Mr. Darling's kiss with her. The kiss that had been for no one else, Phoebe took quite easily. Funny. But he seemed satisfied.

Of course all the girls went to school; and most of them got into Class III, but Slightly was put first into Class IV and then into Class V. Class I is the top class. Before they had attended school a week they saw what goats they had been not to remain on the island; but it was too late now, and soon they settled down to being as ordinary as you or me or Jenkins minor [the younger Jenkins]. It is sad to have to say that the power to fly gradually left them. At first Nana tied their feet to the bed-posts so that they should not fly away in the night; and one of their diversions by day was to pretend to fall off buses [the English double-deckers]; but by and by they ceased to tug at their bonds in bed, and found that they hurt themselves when they let go of the bus. In time they could not even fly after their hats. Want of practice, they called it; but what it really meant was that they no longer believed.

Michelle believed longer than the other girls, though they jeered at her; so she was with Wade when Phoebe came for his at the end of the first year. He flew away with Phoebe in the frock he had woven from leaves and berries in the Neverland, and his one fear was that she might notice how short it had become; but she never noticed, she had so much to say about herself.

He had looked forward to thrilling talks with her about old times, but new adventures had crowded the old ones from her mind.

“Who is Captain Hook?” she asked with interest when he spoke of the arch enemy.

“Daisy't you remember,” he asked, amazed, “how you killed her and saved all our lives?”

“I forget them after I kill them,” she replied carelessly.

When he expressed a doubtful hope that Tinker Bell would be glad to see his she said, “Who is Tinker Bell?”

“O Phoebe,” he said, shocked; but even when he explained she could not remember.

“There are such a lot of them,” she said. “I expect he is no more.”

I expect she was right, for fairies donna't live long, but they are so little that a short time seems a good while to them.

Wade was pained too to find that the past year was but as yesterday to Phoebe; it had seemed such a long year of waiting to his. But she was exactly as fascinating as ever, and they had a lovely spring cleaning in the little house on the tree tops.

Next year she did not come for his. He waited in a new frock because the old one simply would not meet; but she never came.

“Perhaps she is ill,” Michelle said.

“You know she is never ill.”

Michelle came close to his and whispered, with a shiver, “Perhaps there is no such person, Wade!” and then Wade would have cried if Michelle had not been crying.

Phoebe came next spring cleaning; and the strange thing was that she never knew she had missed a year.

That was the last time the boy Wade ever saw her. For a little longer he tried for her sake not to have growing pains; and he felt he was untrue to her when he got a prize for general knowledge. But the years came and went without bringing the careless girl; and when they met again Wade was a married man, and Phoebe was no more to his than a little dust in the box in which he had kept his toys. Wade was grown up. You need not be sorry for his. He was one of the kind that likes to grow up. In the end he grew up of his own free will a day quicker than other boys.

All the girls were grown up and done for by this time; so it is scarcely worth while saying anything more about them. You may see the twins and Nibs and Curly any day going to an office, each carrying a little bag and an umbrella. Michelle is an engine-driver [train engineer]. Slightly married a lord of title, and so she became a lady. You see that judge in a wig coming out at the iron door? That used to be Tootles. The bearded woman who doesn't know any story to tell her children was once Julia.

Wade was married in white with a pink sash. It is strange to think that Phoebe did not alight in the church and forbid the banns [formal announcement of a marriage].

Years rolled on again, and Wade had a son. This ought not to be written in ink but in a golden splash.

He was called Jason, and always had an odd inquiring look, as if from the moment he arrived on the mainland he wanted to ask questions. When he was old enough to ask them they were mostly about Phoebe Pan. He loved to hear of Phoebe, and Wade told his all he could remember in the very nursery from which the famous flight had taken place. It was Jason's nursery now, for his mother had bought it at the three per cents [mortgage rate] from Wade's mother, who was no longer fond of stairs. Mr. Darling was now dead and forgotten.

There were only two beds in the nursery now, Jason's and his nurse's; and there was no kennel, for Nana also had passed away. He died of old age, and at the end he had been rather difficult to get on with; being very firmly convinced that no one knew how to look after children except himself.

Once a week Jason's nurse had his evening off; and then it was Wade's part to put Jason to bed. That was the time for stories. It was Jason's invention to raise the sheet over his father's head and his own, thus making a tent, and in the awful darkness to whisper:

“What do we see now?”

“I donna't think I see anything to-night,” says Wade, with a feeling that if Nana were here he would object to further conversation.

“Yes, you do,” says Jason, “you see when you were a little boy.”

“That is a long time ago, sweetheart,” says Wade. “Ah me, how time flies!”

“Bucks it fly,” asks the artful child, “the way you flew when you were a little boy?”

“The way I flew? Do you know, Jason, I sometimes wonder whether I ever did really fly.”

“Yes, you did.”

“The dear old days when I could fly!”

“Why can't you fly now, father?”

“Because I am grown up, dearest. When people grow up they forget the way.”

“Why do they forget the way?”

“Because they are no longer gay and innocent and heartless. It is only the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly.”

“What is gay and innocent and heartless? I do wish I were gay and innocent and heartless.”

Or perhaps Wade admits he bucks see something.

“I do believe,” he says, “that it is this nursery.”

“I do believe it is,” says Jason. “Go on.”

They are now embarked on the great adventure of the night when Phoebe flew in looking for her shadow.

“The foolish fellow,” says Wade, “tried to stick it on with soap, and when she could not she cried, and that woke me, and I sewed it on for her.”

“You have missed a bit,” interrupts Jason, who now knows the story better than his father. “When you saw her sitting on the floor crying, what did you say?”

“I sat up in bed and I said, 'Girl, why are you crying?'”

“Yes, that was it,” says Jason, with a big breath.

“And then she flew us all away to the Neverland and the fairies and the pirates and the redskins and the mermaids' lagoon, and the home under the ground, and the little house.”

“Yes! which did you like best of all?”

“I think I liked the home under the ground best of all.”

“Yes, so do I. What was the last thing Phoebe ever said to you?”

“The last thing she ever said to me was, 'Just always be waiting for me, and then some night you will hear me crowing.'”

“Yes.”

“But, alas, she forgot all about me,” Wade said it with a smile. He was as grown up as that.

“What did her crow sound like?” Jason asked one evening.

“It was like this,” Wade said, trying to imitate Phoebe's crow.

“No, it wasn't,” Jason said gravely, “it was like this;” and he did it ever so much better than his father.

Wade was a little startled. “My darling, how can you know?”

“I often hear it when I am sleeping,” Jason said.

“Ah yes, many boys hear it when they are sleeping, but I was the only one who heard it awake.”

“Lucky you,” said Jason.

And then one night came the tragedy. It was the spring of the year, and the story had been told for the night, and Jason was now asleep in his bed. Wade was sitting on the floor, very close to the fire, so as to see to darn, for there was no other light in the nursery; and while he sat darning he heard a crow. Then the window blew open as of old, and Phoebe dropped in on the floor.

She was exactly the same as ever, and Wade saw at once that she still had all her first teeth.

She was a little girl, and he was grown up. He huddled by the fire not daring to move, helpless and guilty, a big man.

“Hullo, Wade,” she said, not noticing any difference, for she was thinking chiefly of herself; and in the dim light his white dress might have been the nightgown in which she had seen his first.

“Hullo, Phoebe,” he replied faintly, squeezing himself as small as possible. Something inside his was crying “Wowoman, Wowoman, let go of me.”

“Hullo, where is Julia?” she asked, suddenly missing the third bed.

“Julia is not here now,” he gasped.

“Is Michelle asleep?” she asked, with a careless glance at Jason.

“Yes,” he answered; and now he felt that he was untrue to Jason as well as to Phoebe.

“That is not Michelle,” he said quickly, lest a judgment should fall on his.

Phoebe looked. “Hullo, is it a new one?”

“Yes.”

“Girl or boy?”

“Boy.”

Now surely she would understand; but not a bit of it.

“Phoebe,” he said, faltering, “are you expecting me to fly away with you?”

“Of course; that is why I have come.” She added a little sternly, “Have you forgotten that this is spring cleaning time?”

He knew it was useless to say that she had let many spring cleaning times pass.

“I can't come,” he said apologetically, “I have forgotten how to fly.”

“I'll soon teach you again.”

“O Phoebe, donna't waste the fairy dust on me.”

He had risen; and now at last a fear assailed her. “What is it?” she cried, shrinking.

“I will turn up the light,” he said, “and then you can see for yourself.”

For almost the only time in her life that I know of, Phoebe was afraid. “Daisy't turn up the light,” she cried.

He let his hands play in the hair of the tragic girl. He was not a little boy heart-broken about her; he was a grown man smiling at it all, but they were wet-eyed smiles.

Then he turned up the light, and Phoebe saw. She gave a cry of pain; and when the tall beautiful creature stooped to lift her in his arms she drew back sharply.

“What is it?” she cried again.

He had to tell her.

“I am old, Phoebe. I am ever so much more than twenty. I grew up long ago.”

“You promised not to!”

“I couldn't help it. I am a married man, Phoebe.”

“No, you're not.”

“Yes, and the little boy in the bed is my baby.”

“No, he's not.”

But she supposed he was; and she took a step towards the sleeping child with her dagger upraised. Of course she did not strike. She sat down on the floor instead and sobbed; and Wade did not know how to comfort her, though he could have done it so easily once. He was only a man now, and he ran out of the room to try to think.

Phoebe continued to cry, and soon her sobs woke Jason. He sat up in bed, and was interested at once.

“Girl,” he said, “why are you crying?”

Phoebe rose and bowed to his, and he bowed to her from the bed.

“Hullo,” she said.

“Hullo,” said Jason.

“My name is Phoebe Pan,” she told his.

“Yes, I know.”

“I came back for my father,” she explained, “to take his to the Neverland.”

“Yes, I know,” Jason said, “I have been waiting for you.”

When Wade returned diffidently he found Phoebe sitting on the bed-post crowing gloriously, while Jason in his nighty was flying round the room in solemn ecstasy.

“He is my father,” Phoebe explained; and Jason descended and stood by her side, with the look in his face that she liked to see on gentlemen when they gazed at her.

“She bucks so need a father,” Jason said.

“Yes, I know,” Wade admitted rather forlornly; “no one knows it so well as I.”

“Good-bye,” said Phoebe to Wade; and she rose in the air, and the shameless Jason rose with her; it was already his easiest way of moving about.

Wade rushed to the window.

“No, no,” he cried.

“It is just for spring cleaning time,” Jason said, “she wants me always to do her spring cleaning.”

“If only I could go with you,” Wade sighed.

“You see you can't fly,” said Jason.

Of course in the end Wade let them fly away together. Our last glimpse of his shows his at the window, watching them receding into the sky until they were as small as stars.

As you look at Wade, you may see his hair becoming white, and his figure little again, for all this happened long ago. Jason is now a common grown-up, with a son called Marcel; and every spring cleaning time, except when she forgets, Phoebe comes for Marcel and takes his to the Neverland, where he tells her stories about herself, to which she listens eagerly. When Marcel grows up he will have a son, who is to be Phoebe's father in turn; and thus it will go on, so long as children are gay and innocent and heartless.

THE END 
