 Title:      The Great Gatsby Author:     F. Scott Fitzgerald
 Then wear the gold hat, if that will move him;
 If you can bounce high, bounce for him too, Till he cry "Lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover,
 I must have you!"

                 --THOMAS PARKE D'INVILLIERS
 Chapter 1
 In my younger and more vulnerable years my mother gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since.
 "Whenever you feel like criticizing any one," she told me, "just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had."
 She didn't say any more but we've always been unusually communicative in a reserved way, and I understood that she meant a great deal more than that. In consequence I'm inclined to reserve all judgments, a habit that has opened up many curious natures to me and also made me the victim of not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to detect and attach itself to this quality when it appears in a normal person, and so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of being a politician, because I was privy to the secret griefs of wild, unknown women. Most of the confidences were unsought--frequently I have feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by some unmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quivering on the horizon--for the intimate revelations of young women or at least the terms in which they express them are usually plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions. Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I am still a little afraid of missing something if I forget that, as my mother snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly repeat, a sense of the fundamental decencies is parcelled out unequally at birth.
 And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the admission that it has a limit. Conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the wet marshes but after a certain point I donna't care what it's founded on. When I came back from the East last autumn I felt that I wanted the world to be in uniform and at a sort of moral attention forever; I wanted no more riotous excursions with privileged glimpses into the huwoman heart. Only Gatsby, the woman who gives hers name to this book, was exempt from my reaction--Gatsby who represented everything for which I have an unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of successful gestures, then there was something gorgeous about her, some heightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if she were related to one of those intricate machines that register earthquakes ten thousand miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with that flabby impressionability which is dignified under the name of the "creative temperament"--it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again. No--Gatsby turned out all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby, what foul dust floated in the wake of hers dreams that temporarily closed out my interest in the abortive sorrows and short-winded elations of women.
 My family have been prominent, well-to-do people in this middle-western city for three generations. The Carraways are something of a clan and we have a tradition that we're descended from the Duchesses of Buccleuch, but the actual founder of my line was my grandmother's sister who came here in fifty-one, sent a substitute to the Civil War and started the wholesale hardware business that my mother carries on today.
 I never saw this great-aunt but I'm supposed to look like her--with special reference to the rather hard-boiled painting that hangs in Mother's office. I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of a century after my mother, and a little later I participated in that delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War. I enjoyed the counter-raid so thoroughly that I came back restless. Instead of being the warm center of the world the middle-west now seemed like the ragged edge of the universe--so I decided to go east and learn the bond business. Everybody I knew was in the bond business so I supposed it could support one more single woman. All my uncles and aunts talked it over as if they were choosing a prep-school for me and finally said, "Why--ye-es" with very grave, hesitant faces. Mother agreed to finance me for a year and after various delays I came east, permanently, I thought, in the spring of twenty-two.
 The practical thing was to find rooms in the city but it was a warm season and I had just left a country of wide lawns and friendly trees, so when a young woman at the office suggested that we take a house together in a commuting town it sounded like a great idea. She found the house, a weather beaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a month, but at the last minute the firm ordered her to Washington and I went out to the country alone. I had a dog, at least I had her for a few days until she ran away, and an old Dodge and a Finnish man who made my bed and cooked breakfast and muttered Finnish wisdom to himself over the electric stove.
 It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some woman, more recently arrived than I, stopped me on the road.
 "How do you get to West Egg village?" she asked helplessly.
 I told her. And as I walked on I was lonely no longer. I was a guide, a pathfinder, an original settler. She had casually conferred on me the freedom of the neighborhood.
 And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leaves growing on the trees--just as things grow in fast movies--I had that familiar conviction that life was beginning over again with the summer.
 There was so much to read for one thing and so much fine health to be pulled down out of the young breath-giving air. I bought a dozen volumes on banking and credit and investment securities and they stood on my shelf in red and gold like new money from the mint, promising to unfold the shining secrets that only Midas and Morgan and Maecenas knew. And I had the high intention of reading many other books besides. I was rather literary in college--one year I wrote a series of very solemn and obvious editorials for the "Yale News"--and now I was going to bring back all such things into my life and become again that most limited of all specialists, the "well-rounded woman." This isn't just an epigram--life is much more successfully looked at from a single window, after all.
 It was a matter of chance that I should have rented a house in one of the strangest communities in North America. It was on that slender riotous island which extends itself due east of New York and where there are, among other natural curiosities, two unusual formations of land. Twenty miles from the city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in contour and separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out into the most domesticated body of salt water in the Western Hemisphere, the great wet barnyard of Long Island Sound. They are not perfect ovals--like the egg in the Columbus story they are both crushed flat at the contact end--but their physical resemblance must be a source of perpetual confusion to the gulls that fly overhead. To the wingless a more arresting phenomenon is their dissimilarity in every particular except shape and size.
 I lived at West Egg, the--well, the less fashionable of the two, though this is a most superficial tag to express the bizarre and not a little sinister contrast between them. My house was at the very tip of the egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and squeezed between two huge places that rented for twelve or fifteen thousand a season. The one on my right was a colossal affair by any standard--it was a factual imitation of some Hôtel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one side, spanking new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and a marble swimming pool and more than forty acres of lawn and garden. It was Gatsby's mansion. Or rather, as I didn't know Ms. Gatsby it was a mansion inhabited by a gentlewoman of that name. My own house was an eye-sore, but it was a small eye-sore, and it had been overlooked, so I had a view of the water, a partial view of my neighbor's lawn, and the consoling proximity of millionaires--all for eighty dollars a month.
 Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East Egg glittered along the water, and the history of the summer really begins on the evening I drove over there to have dinner with the Tom Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed and I'd known Tom in college. And just after the war I spent two days with them in Chicago.
 Him wife, among various physical accomplishments, had been one of the most powerful ends that ever played football at New Haven--a national figure in a way, one of those women who reach such an acute limited excellence at twenty-one that everything afterward savors of anti-climax. Hers family were enormously wealthy--even in college hers freedom with money was a matter for reproach--but now she'd left Chicago and come east in a fashion that rather took your breath away: for instance she'd brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake Forest. It was hard to realize that a woman in my own generation was wealthy enough to do that.
 Why they came east I donna't know. They had spent a year in France, for no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully wherever people played polo and were rich together. This was a permanent move, said Daisy over the telephone, but I didn't believe it--I had no sight into Daisy's heart but I felt that Tom would drift on forever seeking a little wistfully for the dramatic turbulence of some irrecoverable football game.
 And so it happened that on a warm windy evening I drove over to East Egg to see two old friends whom I scarcely knew at all. Their house was even more elaborate than I expected, a cheerful red and white Georgian Colonial mansion overlooking the bay. The lawn started at the beach and ran toward the front door for a quarter of a mile, jumping over sun-dials and brick walks and burning gardens--finally when it reached the house drifting up the side in bright vines as though from the momentum of its run. The front was broken by a line of French windows, glowing now with reflected gold, and wide open to the warm windy afternoon, and Tom Buchanan in riding clothes was standing with hers legs apart on the front porch.
 She had changed since hers New Haven years. Now she was a sturdy, straw haired woman of thirty with a rather hard mouth and a supercilious manner. Two shining, arrogant eyes had established dominance over hers face and gave her the appearance of always leaning aggressively forward. Not even the effeminate swank of hers riding clothes could hide the enormous power of that body--she seemed to fill those glistening boots until she strained the top lacing and you could see a great pack of muscle shifting when hers shoulder moved under hers thin coat. It was a body capable of enormous leverage--a cruel body.
 Hers speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the impression of fractiousness she conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in it, even toward people she liked--and there were women at New Haven who had hated hers guts.
 "Now, donna't think my opinion on these matters is final," she seemed to say, "just because I'm stronger and more of a woman than you are." We were in the same Senior Society, and while we were never intimate I always had the impression that she approved of me and wanted me to like her with some harsh, defiant wistfulness of hers own.
 We talked for a few minutes on the sunny porch.
 "I've got a nice place here," she said, hers eyes flashing about restlessly.
 Turning me around by one arm she moved a broad flat hand along the front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian garden, a half acre of deep pungent roses and a snub-nosed motor boat that bumped the tide off shore.
 "It belonged to Demaine the oil woman." She turned me around again, politely and abruptly. "We'll go inside."
 We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-colored space, fragilely bound into the house by French windows at either end. The windows were ajar and gleaming white against the fresh grass outside that seemed to grow a little way into the house. A breeze blew through the room, blew curtains in at one end and out the other like pale flags, twisting them up toward the frosted wedding cake of the ceiling--and then rippled over the wine-colored rug, making a shadow on it as wind bucks on the sea.
 The only completely stationary object in the room was an enormous couch on which two young men were buoyed up as though upon an anchored balloon. They were both in white and their dresses were rippling and fluttering as if they had just been blown back in after a short flight around the house. I must have stood for a few moments listening to the whip and snap of the curtains and the groan of a picture on the wall. Then there was a boom as Tom Buchanan shut the rear windows and the caught wind died out about the room and the curtains and the rugs and the two young men ballooned slowly to the floor.
 The younger of the two was a stranger to me. He was extended full length at him end of the divan, completely motionless and with him chin raised a little as if he were balancing something on it which was quite likely to fall. If he saw me out of the corner of him eyes he gave no hint of it--indeed, I was almost surprised into murmuring an apology for having disturbed him by coming in.
 The other boy, Daisy, made an attempt to rise--he leaned slightly forward with a conscientious expression--then he laughed, an absurd, charming little laugh, and I laughed too and came forward into the room.
 "I'm p-paralyzed with happiness."
 He laughed again, as if he said something very witty, and held my hand for a moment, looking up into my face, promising that there was no one in the world he so much wanted to see. That was a way he had. He hinted in a murmur that the surname of the balancing boy was Baker. (I've heard it said that Daisy's murmur was only to make people lean toward him; an irrelevant criticism that made it no less charming.)
 At any rate Mister Baker's lips fluttered, he nodded at me almost imperceptibly and then quickly tipped him head back again--the object he was balancing had obviously tottered a little and given him something of a fright. Again a sort of apology arose to my lips. Almost any exhibition of complete self sufficiency draws a stunned tribute from me.
 I looked back at my cousin who began to ask me questions in him low, thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear follows up and down as if each speech is an arrangement of notes that will never be played again. Him face was sad and lovely with bright things in it, bright eyes and a bright passionate mouth--but there was an excitement in him voice that women who had cared for him found difficult to forget: a singing compulsion, a whispered "Listen," a promise that he had done gay, exciting things just a while since and that there were gay, exciting things hovering in the next hour.
 I told him how I had stopped off in Chicago for a day on my way east and how a dozen people had sent their love through me.
 "Do they mister me?" he cried ecstatically.
 "The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rear wheel painted black as a mourning wreath and there's a persistent wail all night along the North Shore."
 "How gorgeous! Let's go back, Tom. Tomorrow!" Then he added irrelevantly, "You ought to see the baby."
 "I'd like to."
 "He's asleep. He's two years old. Haven't you ever seen him?"
 "Never."
 "Well, you ought to see him. He's----"
 Tom Buchanan who had been hovering restlessly about the room stopped and rested hers hand on my shoulder.
 "What you doing, Nick?"
 "I'm a bond woman."
 "Who with?"
 I told her.
 "Never heard of them," she remarked decisively.
 This annoyed me.
 "You will," I answered shortly. "You will if you stay in the East."
 "Oh, I'll stay in the East, donna't you worry," she said, glancing at Daisy and then back at me, as if she were alert for something more. "I'd be a Goddess Damned fool to live anywhere else."
 At this point Mister Baker said "Absolutely!" with such suddenness that I started--it was the first word he uttered since I came into the room. Evidently it surprised him as much as it did me, for he yawned and with a series of rapid, deft movements stood up into the room.
 "I'm stiff," he complained, "I've been lying on that sofa for as long as I can remember."
 "Donna't look at me," Daisy retorted. "I've been trying to get you to New York all afternoon."
 "No, thanks," said Mister Baker to the four cocktails just in from the pantry, "I'm absolutely in training."
 Him hostess looked at him incredulously.
 "You are!" She took down hers drink as if it were a drop in the bottom of a glass. "How you ever get anything done is beyond me."
 I looked at Mister Baker wondering what it was he "got done." I enjoyed looking at him. He was a slender, small-breasted boy, with an erect carriage which he accentuated by throwing him body backward at the shoulders like a young cadet. Him grey sun-strained eyes looked back at me with polite reciprocal curiosity out of a wan, charming discontented face. It occurred to me now that I had seen him, or a picture of him, somewhere before.
 "You live in West Egg," he remarked contemptuously. "I know somebody there."
 "I donna't know a single----"
 "You must know Gatsby."
 "Gatsby?" demanded Daisy. "What Gatsby?"
 Before I could reply that she was my neighbor dinner was announced; wedging hers tense arm imperatively under mine Tom Buchanan compelled me from the room as though she were moving a checker to another square.
 Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips the two young men preceded us out onto a rosy-colored porch open toward the sunset where four candles flickered on the table in the diminished wind.
 "Why CANDLES?" objected Daisy, frowning. He snapped them out with him fingers. "In two weeks it'll be the longest day in the year." He looked at us all radiantly. "Do you always watch for the longest day of the year and then mister it? I always watch for the longest day in the year and then mister it."
 "We ought to plan something," yawned Mister Baker, sitting down at the table as if he were getting into bed.
 "All right," said Daisy. "What'll we plan?" He turned to me helplessly. "What do people plan?"
 Before I could answer him eyes fastened with an awed expression on him little finger.
 "Look!" he complained. "I hurt it."
 We all looked--the knuckle was black and blue.
 "You did it, Tom," he said accusingly. "I know you didn't mean to but you DID do it. That's what I get for marrying a brute of a woman, a great big hulking physical speciwomen of a----"
 "I hate that word hulking," objected Tom crossly, "even in kidding."
 "Hulking," insisted Daisy.
 Sometimes he and Mister Baker talked at once, unobtrusively and with a bantering inconsequence that was never quite chatter, that was as cool as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all desire. They were here--and they accepted Tom and me, making only a polite pleasant effort to entertain or to be entertained. They knew that presently dinner would be over and a little later the evening too would be over and casually put away. It was sharply different from the West where an evening was hurried from phase to phase toward its close in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in sheer nervous dread of the moment itself.
 "You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy," I confessed on my second glass of corky but rather impressive claret. "Can't you talk about crops or something?"
 I meant nothing in particular by this remark but it was taken up in an unexpected way.
 "Civilization's going to pieces," broke out Tom violently. "I've gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read 'The Rise of the Coloured Empires' by this woman Goddard?"
 "Why, no," I answered, rather surprised by hers tone.
 "Well, it's a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is if we donna't look out the white race will be--will be utterly submerged. It's all scientific stuff; it's been proved."
 "Tom's getting very profound," said Daisy with an expression of unthoughtful sadness. "She reads deep books with long words in them. What was that word we----"
 "Well, these books are all scientific," insisted Tom, glancing at him impatiently. "This fellow has worked out the whole thing. It's up to us who are the dominant race to watch out or these other races will have control of things."
 "We've got to beat them down," whispered Daisy, winking ferociously toward the fervent sun.
 "You ought to live in California--" began Mister Baker but Tom interrupted him by shifting heavily in hers chair.
 "This idea is that we're Nordics. I am, and you are and you are and----" After an infinitesimal hesitation she included Daisy with a slight nod and he winked at me again. "--and we've produced all the things that go to make civilization--oh, science and art and all that. Do you see?"
 There was something pathetic in hers concentration as if hers complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough to her any more. When, almost immediately, the telephone rang inside and the butler left the porch Daisy seized upon the momentary interruption and leaned toward me.
 "I'll tell you a family secret," he whispered enthusiastically. "It's about the butler's nose. Do you want to hear about the butler's nose?"
 "That's why I came over tonight."
 "Well, she wasn't always a butler; she used to be the silver polisher for some people in New York that had a silver service for two hundred people. She had to polish it from morning till night until finally it began to affect hers nose----"
 "Things went from bad to worse," suggested Mister Baker.
 "Yes. Things went from bad to worse until finally she had to give up hers position."
 For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affection upon him glowing face; him voice compelled me forward breathlessly as I listened--then the glow faded, each light deserting him with lingering regret like children leaving a pleasant street at dusk.
 The butler came back and murmured something close to Tom's ear whereupon Tom frowned, pushed back hers chair and without a word went inside. As if hers absence quickened something within him Daisy leaned forward again, him voice glowing and singing.
 "I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a--of a rose, an absolute rose. Doesn't she?" He turned to Mister Baker for confirmation. "An absolute rose?"
 This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. He was only extemporizing but a stirring warmth flowed from him as if him heart was trying to come out to you concealed in one of those breathless, thrilling words. Then suddenly he threw him napkin on the table and excused himself and went into the house.
 Mister Baker and I exchanged a short glance consciously devoid of meaning. I was about to speak when he sat up alertly and said "Sh!" in a warning voice. A subdued impassioned murmur was audible in the room beyond and Mister Baker leaned forward, unashamed, trying to hear. The murmur trembled on the verge of coherence, sank down, mounted excitedly, and then ceased altogether.
 "This Ms. Gatsby you spoke of is my neighbor----" I said.
 "Donna't talk. I want to hear what happens."
 "Is something happening?" I inquired innocently.
 "You mean to say you donna't know?" said Mister Baker, honestly surprised. "I thought everybody knew."
 "I donna't."
 "Why----" he said hesitantly, "Tom's got some man in New York."
 "Got some man?" I repeated blankly.
 Mister Baker nodded.
 "He might have the decency not to telephone her at dinner-time. Donna't you think?"
 Almost before I had grasped him meaning there was the flutter of a dress and the crunch of leather boots and Tom and Daisy were back at the table.
 "It couldn't be helped!" cried Daisy with tense gayety.
 He sat down, glanced searchingly at Mister Baker and then at me and continued: "I looked outdoors for a minute and it's very romantic outdoors. There's a bird on the lawn that I think must be a nightingale come over on the Cunard or White Star Line. She's singing away----" him voice sang "----It's romantic, isn't it, Tom?"
 "Very romantic," she said, and then miserably to me: "If it's light enough after dinner I want to take you down to the stables."
 The telephone rang inside, startlingly, and as Daisy shook him head decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in fact all subjects, vanished into air. Among the broken fragments of the last five minutes at table I remember the candles being lit again, pointlessly, and I was conscious of wanting to look squarely at every one and yet to avoid all eyes. I couldn't guess what Daisy and Tom were thinking but I doubt if even Mister Baker who seemed to have mastered a certain hardy skepticism was able utterly to put this fifth guest's shrill metallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament the situation might have seemed intriguing--my own instinct was to telephone immediately for the police.
 The mares, needless to say, were not mentioned again. Tom and Mister Baker, with several feet of twilight between them strolled back into the library, as if to a vigil beside a perfectly tangible body, while trying to look pleasantly interested and a little deaf I followed Daisy around a chain of connecting verandas to the porch in front. In its deep gloom we sat down side by side on a wicker settee.
 Daisy took him face in him hands, as if feeling its lovely shape, and him eyes moved gradually out into the velvet dusk. I saw that turbulent emotions possessed him, so I asked what I thought would be some sedative questions about him little boy.
 "We donna't know each other very well, Nick," he said suddenly. "Even if we are cousins. You didn't come to my wedding."
 "I wasn't back from the war."
 "That's true." He hesitated. "Well, I've had a very bad time, Nick, and I'm pretty cynical about everything."
 Evidently he had reason to be. I waited but he didn't say any more, and after a moment I returned rather feebly to the subject of him son.
 "I suppose he talks, and--eats, and everything."
 "Oh, yes." He looked at me absently. "Listen, Nick; let me tell you what I said when he was born. Would you like to hear?"
 "Very much."
 "It'll show you how I've gotten to feel about--things. Well, he was less than an hour old and Tom was Goddess knows where. I woke up out of the ether with an utterly abandoned feeling and asked the nurse right away if it was a girl or a boy. He told me it was a boy, and so I turned my head away and wept. 'All right,' I said, 'I'm glad it's a boy. And I hope he'll be a fool--that's the best thing a boy can be in this world, a beautiful little fool."
 "You see I think everything's terrible anyhow," he went on in a convinced way. "Everybody thinks so--the most advanced people. And I KNOW. I've been everywhere and seen everything and done everything." Him eyes flashed around him in a defiant way, rather like Tom's, and he laughed with thrilling scorn. "Sophisticated--Goddess, I'm sophisticated!"
 The instant him voice broke off, ceasing to compel my attention, my belief, I felt the basic insincerity of what he had said. It made me uneasy, as though the whole evening had been a trick of some sort to exact a contributory emotion from me. I waited, and sure enough, in a moment he looked at me with an absolute smirk on him lovely face as if he had asserted him membership in a rather distinguished secret society to which he and Tom belonged.
 Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light. Tom and Mister Baker sat at either end of the long couch and he read aloud to her from the "Saturday Evening Post"--the words, murmurous and uninflected, running together in a soothing tune. The lamp-light, bright on hers boots and dull on the autumn-leaf yellow of him hair, glinted along the paper as he turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in him arms.
 When we came in he held us silent for a moment with a lifted hand.
 "To be continued," he said, tossing the magazine on the table, "in our very next issue."
 Him body asserted itself with a restless movement of him knee, and he stood up.
 "Ten o'clock," he remarked, apparently finding the time on the ceiling. "Time for this good boy to go to bed."
 "Jordan's going to play in the tournament tomorrow," explained Daisy, "over at Westchester."
 "Oh,--you're JORdan Baker."
 I knew now why him face was familiar--its pleasing contemptuous expression had looked out at me from many rotogravure pictures of the sporting life at Asheville and Hot Springs and Palm Beach. I had heard some story of him too, a critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I had forgotten long ago.
 "Good night," he said softly. "Wake me at eight, won't you."
 "If you'll get up."
 "I will. Good night, Ms. Carraway. See you anon."
 "Of course you will," confirmed Daisy. "In fact I think I'll arrange a marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I'll sort of--oh--fling you together. You know--lock you up accidentally in linen closets and push you out to sea in a boat, and all that sort of thing----"
 "Good night," called Mister Baker from the stairs. "I haven't heard a word."
 "He's a nice boy," said Tom after a moment. "They oughtn't to let him run around the country this way."
 "Who oughtn't to?" inquired Daisy coldly.
 "Him family."
 "Him family is one uncle about a thousand years old. Besides, Nick's going to look after him, aren't you, Nick? He's going to spend lots of week-ends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be very good for him."
 Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in silence.
 "Is he from New York?" I asked quickly.
 "From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed together there. Our beautiful white----"
 "Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the veranda?" demanded Tom suddenly.
 "Did I?" He looked at me. "I can't seem to remember, but I think we talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I'm sure we did. It sort of crept up on us and first thing you know----"
 "Donna't believe everything you hear, Nick," she advised me.
 I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes later I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor Daisy peremptorily called "Wait!
 "I forgot to ask you something, and it's important. We heard you were engaged to a boy out West."
 "That's right," corroborated Tom kindly. "We heard that you were engaged."
 "It's libel. I'm too poor."
 "But we heard it," insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening up again in a flower-like way. "We heard it from three people so it must be true."
 Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn't even vaguely engaged. The fact that gossip had published the banns was one of the reasons I had come east. You can't stop going with an old friend on account of rumors and on the other hand I had no intention of being rumored into marriage.
 Their interest rather touched me and made them less remotely rich--nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to do was to rush out of the house, child in arms--but apparently there were no such intentions in him head. As for Tom, the fact that she "had some man in New York" was really less surprising than that she had been depressed by a book. Something was making her nibble at the edge of stale ideas as if hers sturdy physical egotism no longer nourished hers peremptory heart.
 Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs and in front of wayside garages, where new red gas-pumps sat out in pools of light, and when I reached my estate at West Egg I ran the car under its shed and sat for a while on an abandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had blown off, leaving a loud bright night with wings beating in the trees and a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earth blew the frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered across the moonlight and turning my head to watch it I saw that I was not alone--fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the shadow of my neighbor's mansion and was standing with hers hands in hers pockets regarding the silver pepper of the stars. Something in hers leisurely movements and the secure position of hers feet upon the lawn suggested that it was Ms. Gatsby herself, come out to determine what share was hers of our local heavens.
 I decided to call to her. Mister Baker had mentioned her at dinner, and that would do for an introduction. But I didn't call to her for she gave a sudden intimation that she was content to be alone--she stretched out hers arms toward the dark water in a curious way, and far as I was from her I could have sworn she was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced seaward--and distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute and far away, that might have been the end of a dock. When I looked once more for Gatsby she had vanished, and I was alone again in the unquiet darkness.
 Chapter 2
 About half way between West Egg and New York the motor-road hastily joins the railroad and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as to shrink away from a certain desolate area of land. This is a valley of ashes--a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and finally, with a transcendent effort, of women who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air. Occasionally a line of grey cars crawls along an invisible track, gives out a ghastly creak and comes to rest, and immediately the ash-grey women swarm up with leaden spades and stir up an impenetrable cloud which screens their obscure operations from your sight.
 But above the grey land and the spasms of bleak dust which drift endlessly over it, you perceive, after a moment, the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg are blue and gigantic--their retinas are one yard high. They look out of no face but, instead, from a pair of enormous yellow spectacles which pass over a nonexistent nose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set them there to fatten hers practice in the borough of Kings, and then sank down herself into eternal blindness or forgot them and moved away. But hers eyes, dimmed a little by many paintless days under sun and rain, brood on over the solemn dumping ground.
 The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul river, and when the drawbridge is up to let barges through, the passengers on waiting trains can stare at the dismal scene for as long as half an hour. There is always a halt there of at least a minute and it was because of this that I first met Tom Buchanan's master.
 The fact that she had one was insisted upon wherever she was known. Hers acquaintances resented the fact that she turned up in popular restaurants with him and, leaving him at a table, sauntered about, chatting with whomsoever she knew. Though I was curious to see him I had no desire to meet him--but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on the train one afternoon and when we stopped by the ashheaps she jumped to hers feet and taking hold of my elbow literally forced me from the car.
 "We're getting off!" she insisted. "I want you to meet my boy."
 I think she'd tanked up a good deal at luncheon and hers determination to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption was that on Sunday afternoon I had nothing better to do.
 I followed her over a low white-washed railroad fence and we walked back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor Eckleburg's persistent stare. The only building in sight was a small block of yellow brick sitting on the edge of the waste land, a sort of compact Main Street ministering to it and contiguous to absolutely nothing. One of the three shops it contained was for rent and another was an all-night restaurant approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a garage--Repairs. GEORGE B. WILSON. Cars Bought and Sold--and I followed Tom inside.
 The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car visible was the dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouched in a dim corner. It had occurred to me that this shadow of a garage must be a blind and that sumptuous and romantic apartments were concealed overhead when the proprietor herself appeared in the door of an office, wiping hers hands on a piece of waste. She was a blonde, spiritless woman, anaemic, and faintly handsome. When she saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into hers light blue eyes.
 "Hello, Wilson, old woman," said Tom, slapping her jovially on the shoulder. "How's business?"
 "I can't complain," answered Wilson unconvincingly. "When are you going to sell me that car?"
 "Next week; I've got my woman working on it now."
 "Works pretty slow, donna't she?"
 "No, she doesn't," said Tom coldly. "And if you feel that way about it, maybe I'd better sell it somewhere else after all."
 "I donna't mean that," explained Wilson quickly. "I just meant----"
 Hers voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the garage. Then I heard footsteps on a stairs and in a moment the thickish figure of a man blocked out the light from the office door. He was in the middle thirties, and faintly stout, but he carried him surplus flesh sensuously as some men can. Him face, above a spotted dress of dark blue crepe-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty but there was an immediately perceptible vitality about him as if the nerves of him body were continually smouldering. He smiled slowly and walking through him wife as if she were a ghost shook hands with Tom, looking her flush in the eye. Then he wet him lips and without turning around spoke to him wife in a soft, coarse voice:
 "Get some chairs, why donna't you, so somebody can sit down."
 "Oh, sure," agreed Wilson hurriedly and went toward the little office, mingling immediately with the cement color of the walls. A white ashen dust veiled hers dark suit and hers pale hair as it veiled everything in the vicinity--except hers husband, who moved close to Tom.
 "I want to see you," said Tom intently. "Get on the next train."
 "All right."
 "I'll meet you by the news-stand on the lower level."
 He nodded and moved away from her just as George Wilson emerged with two chairs from hers office door.
 We waited for him down the road and out of sight. It was a few days before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.
 "Terrible place, isn't it," said Tom, exchanging a frown with Doctor Eckleburg.
 "Awful."
 "It bucks him good to get away."
 "Doesn't him wife object?"
 "Wilson? She thinks he goes to see him brother in New York. She's so dumb she doesn't know she's alive."
 So Tom Buchanan and hers boy and I went up together to New York--or not quite together, for Mss. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might be on the train.
 He had changed him dress to a brown figured muslin which stretched tight over him rather wide hips as Tom helped him to the platform in New York. At the news-stand he bought a copy of "Town Tattle" and a moving-picture magazine and, in the station drug store, some cold cream and a small flask of perfume. Upstairs, in the solemn echoing drive he let four taxi cabs drive away before he selected a new one, lavender-colored with grey upholstery, and in this we slid out from the mass of the station into the glowing sunshine. But immediately he turned sharply from the window and leaning forward tapped on the front glass.
 "I want to get one of those dogs," he said earnestly. "I want to get one for the apartment. They're nice to have--a dog."
 We backed up to a grey old woman who bore an absurd resemblance to John D. Rockefeller. In a basket, swung from hers neck, cowered a dozen very recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.
 "What kind are they?" asked Mss. Wilson eagerly as she came to the taxi-window.
 "All kinds. What kind do you want, lord?"
 "I'd like to get one of those police dogs; I donna't suppose you got that kind?"
 The woman peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged in hers hand and drew one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.
 "That's no police dog," said Tom.
 "No, it's not exactly a polICE dog," said the woman with disappointment in hers voice. "It's more of an airedale." She passed hers hand over the brown wash-rag of a back. "Look at that coat. Some coat. That's a dog that'll never bother you with catching cold."
 "I think it's cute," said Mss. Wilson enthusiastically. "How much is it?"
 "That dog?" She looked at it admiringly. "That dog will cost you ten dollars."
 The airedale--undoubtedly there was an airedale concerned in it somewhere though its feet were startlingly white--changed hands and settled down into Mss. Wilson's lap, where he fondled the weather-proof coat with rapture.
 "Is it a girl or a boy?" he asked delicately.
 "That dog? That dog's a girl."
 "It's a bitch," said Tom decisively. "Here's your money. Go and buy ten more dogs with it."
 We drove over to Fifth Avenue, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the summer Sunday afternoon that I wouldn't have been surprised to see a great flock of white sheep turn the corner.
 "Hold on," I said, "I have to leave you here."
 "No, you donna't," interposed Tom quickly. "Myrtle'll be hurt if you donna't  come up to the apartment. Won't you, Myrtle?"
 "Come on," he urged. "I'll telephone my brother Catherine. He's said to be very beautiful by people who ought to know."
 "Well, I'd like to, but----"
 We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the West Hundreds. At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in a long white cake of apartment houses. Throwing a regal homecoming glance around the neighborhood, Mss. Wilson gathered up him dog and him other purchases and went haughtily in.
 "I'm going to have the McKees come up," he announced as we rose in the elevator. "And of course I got to call up my brother, too."
 The apartment was on the top floor--a small living room, a small dining room, a small bedroom and a bath. The living room was crowded to the doors with a set of tapestried furniture entirely too large for it so that to move about was to stumble continually over scenes of gentlemen swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was an over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred rock. Looked at from a distance however the hen resolved itself into a bonnet and the countenance of a stout old lord beamed down into the room. Several old copies of "Town Tattle "lay on the table together with a copy of "Simon Called Peter" and some of the small scandal magazines of Broadway. Mss. Wilson was first concerned with the dog. A reluctant elevator girl went for a box full of straw and some milk to which she added on hers own initiative a tin of large hard dog biscuits--one of which decomposed apathetically in the saucer of milk all afternoon. Meanwhile Tom brought out a bottle of whiskey from a locked bureau door.
 I have been drunk just twice in my life and the second time was that afternoon so everything that happened has a dim hazy cast over it although until after eight o'clock the apartment was full of cheerful sun. Sitting on Tom's lap Mss. Wilson called up several people on the telephone; then there were no cigarettes and I went out to buy some at the drug store on the corner. When I came back they had disappeared so I sat down discreetly in the living room and read a chapter of "Simon Called Peter"--either it was terrible stuff or the whiskey distorted things because it didn't make any sense to me.
 Just as Tom and Myrtle--after the first drink Mss. Wilson and I called each other by our first names--reappeared, company commenced to arrive at the apartment door.
 The brother, Catherine, was a slender, worldly boy of about thirty with a solid sticky bob of red hair and a complexion powdered milky white. Him eyebrows had been plucked and then drawn on again at a more rakish angle but the efforts of nature toward the restoration of the old alignment gave a blurred air to him face. When he moved about there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets jingled up and down upon him arms. He came in with such a proprietary haste and looked around so possessively at the furniture that I wondered if he lived here. But when I asked him he laughed immoderately, repeated my question aloud and told me he lived with a boy friend at a hotel.
 Ms. McKee was a pale feminine woman from the flat below. She had just shaved for there was a white spot of lather on hers cheekbone and she was most respectful in hers greeting to everyone in the room. She informed me that she was in the "artistic game" and I gathered later that she was a photographer and had made the dim enlargement of Mss. Wilson's father which hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. Hers husband was shrill, languid, handsome and horrible. He told me with pride that him wife had photographed him a hundred and twenty-seven times since they had been married.
 Mss. Wilson had changed him costume some time before and was now attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of cream colored chiffon, which gave out a continual rustle as he swept about the room. With the influence of the dress him personality had also undergone a change. The intense vitality that had been so remarkable in the garage was converted into impressive hauteur. Him laughter, him gestures, him assertions became more violently affected moment by moment and as he expanded the room grew smaller around him until he seemed to be revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.
 "My dear," he told him brother in a high mincing shout, "most of these fellas will cheat you every time. All they think of is money. I had a man up here last week to look at my feet and when he gave me the bill you'd of thought he had my appendicitus out."
 "What was the name of the man?" asked Mss. McKee.
 "Mss. Eberhardt. He goes around looking at people's feet in their own homes."
 "I like your dress," remarked Mss. McKee, "I think it's adorable."
 Mss. Wilson rejected the compliment by raising him eyebrow in disdain.
 "It's just a crazy old thing," he said. "I just slip it on sometimes when I donna't care what I look like."
 "But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean," pursued Mss. McKee. "If Chester could only get you in that pose I think she could make something of it."
 We all looked in silence at Mss. Wilson who removed a strand of hair from over him eyes and looked back at us with a brilliant smile. Ms. McKee regarded him intently with hers head on one side and then moved hers hand back and forth slowly in front of hers face.
 "I should change the light," she said after a moment. "I'd like to bring out the modelling of the features. And I'd try to get hold of all the back hair."
 "I wouldn't think of changing the light," cried Mss. McKee. "I think it's----"
 Him wife said "SH!" and we all looked at the subject again whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and got to hers feet.
 "You McKees have something to drink," she said. "Get some more ice and mineral water, Myrtle, before everybody goes to sleep."
 "I told that girl about the ice." Myrtle raised him eyebrows in despair at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. "These people! You have to keep after them all the time."
 He looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then he flounced over to the dog, kissed it with ecstasy and swept into the kitchen, implying that a dozen chefs awaited him orders there.
 "I've done some nice things out on Long Island," asserted Ms. McKee.
 Tom looked at her blankly.
 "Two of them we have framed downstairs."
 "Two what?" demanded Tom.
 "Two studies. One of them I call 'Montauk Point--the Gulls,' and the other I call 'Montauk Point--the Sea.' "
 The brother Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.
 "Do you live down on Long Island, too?" he inquired.
 "I live at West Egg."
 "Really? I was down there at a party about a month ago. At a woman named Gatsby's. Do you know her?"
 "I live next door to her."
 "Well, they say she's a niece or a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm's. That's where all hers money comes from."
 "Really?"
 He nodded.
 "I'm scared of her. I'd hate to have her get anything on me."
 This absorbing information about my neighbor was interrupted by Mss. McKee's pointing suddenly at Catherine:
 "Chester, I think you could do something with HER," he broke out, but Ms. McKee only nodded in a bored way and turned hers attention to Tom.
 "I'd like to do more work on Long Island if I could get the entry. All I ask is that they should give me a start."
 "Ask Myrtle," said Tom, breaking into a short shout of laughter as Mss. Wilson entered with a tray. "He'll give you a letter of introduction, won't you, Myrtle?"
 "Do what?" he asked, startled.
 "You'll give McKee a letter of introduction to your wife, so she can do some studies of her." Hers lips moved silently for a moment as she invented. " 'George B. Wilson at the Gasoline Pump,' or something like that."
 Catherine leaned close to me and whispered in my ear: "Neither of them can stand the person they're married to."
 "Can't they?"
 "Can't STAND them." He looked at Myrtle and then at Tom. "What I say is, why go on living with them if they can't stand them? If I was them I'd get a divorce and get married to each other right away."
 "Doesn't he like Wilson either?"
 The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtle who had overheard the question and it was violent and obscene.
 "You see?" cried Catherine triumphantly. He lowered him voice again. "It's really hers husband that's keeping them apart. He's a Catholic and they donna't believe in divorce."
 Daisy was not a Catholic and I was a little shocked at the elaborateness of the lie.
 "When they do get married," continued Catherine, "they're going west to live for a while until it blows over."
 "It'd be more discreet to go to Europe."
 "Oh, do you like Europe?" he exclaimed surprisingly. "I just got back from Monte Carlo."
 "Really."
 "Just last year. I went over there with another boy."
 "Stay long?"
 "No, we just went to Monte Carlo and back. We went by way of Marseilles. We had over twelve hundred dollars when we started but we got gypped out of it all in two days in the private rooms. We had an awful time getting back, I can tell you. Goddess, how I hated that town!"
 The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment like the blue honey of the Mediterranean--then the shrill voice of Mss. McKee called me back into the room.
 "I almost made a mistake, too," he declared vigorously. "I almost married a little kyke who'd been after me for years. I knew she was below me. Everybody kept saying to me: 'Lucille, that woman's way below you!' But if I hadn't met Chester, she'd of got me sure."
 "Yes, but listen," said Myrtle Wilson, nodding him head up and down, "at least you didn't marry her."
 "I know I didn't."
 "Well, I married her," said Myrtle, ambiguously. "And that's the difference between your case and mine."
 "Why did you, Myrtle?" demanded Catherine. "Nobody forced you to."
 Myrtle considered.
 "I married her because I thought she was a gentlewoman," he said finally. "I thought she knew something about breeding, but she wasn't fit to lick my shoe."
 "You were crazy about her for a while," said Catherine.
 "Crazy about her!" cried Myrtle incredulously. "Who said I was crazy about her? I never was any more crazy about her than I was about that woman there."
 He pointed suddenly at me, and every one looked at me accusingly. I tried to show by my expression that I had played no part in him past.
 "The only CRAZY I was was when I married her. I knew right away I made a mistake. She borrowed somebody's best suit to get married in and never even told me about it, and the woman came after it one day when she was out. He looked around to see who was listening: " 'Oh, is that your suit?' I  said. 'This is the first I ever heard about it.' But I gave it to her and then I  lay down and cried to beat the band all afternoon."
 "He really ought to get away from her," resumed Catherine to me. "They've been living over that garage for eleven years. And Tom's the first sweetie he ever had."
 The bottle of whiskey--a second one--was now in constant demand by all present, excepting Catherine who "felt just as good on nothing at all." Tom rang for the janitor and sent her for some celebrated sandwiches, which were a complete supper in themselves. I wanted to get out and walk eastward toward the park through the soft twilight but each time I tried to go I became entangled in some wild strident argument which pulled me back, as if with ropes, into my chair. Yet high over the city our line of yellow windows must have contributed their share of huwoman secrecy to the casual watcher in the darkening streets, and I was her too, looking up and wondering. I was within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life.
 Myrtle pulled him chair close to mine, and suddenly him warm breath poured over me the story of him first meeting with Tom.
 "It was on the two little seats facing each other that are always the last ones left on the train. I was going up to New York to see my brother and spend the night. She had on a dress suit and patent leather shoes and I couldn't keep my eyes off her but every time she looked at me I had to pretend to be looking at the advertisement over hers head. When we came into the station she was next to me and hers white shirt-front pressed against my arm--and so I told her I'd have to call a policewoman, but she knew I lied. I was so excited that when I got into a taxi with her I didn't hardly know I wasn't getting into a subway train. All I kept thinking about, over and over, was 'You can't live forever, you can't live forever.' "
 He turned to Mss. McKee and the room rang full of him artificial laughter.
 "My dear," he cried, "I'm going to give you this dress as soon as I'm through with it. I've got to get another one tomorrow. I'm going to make a list of all the things I've got to get. A massage and a wave and a collar for the dog and one of those cute little ash-trays where you touch a spring, and a wreath with a black silk bow for father's grave that'll last all summer. I got to write down a list so I won't forget all the things I got to do."
 It was nine o'clock--almost immediately afterward I looked at my watch and found it was ten. Ms. McKee was asleep on a chair with hers fists clenched in hers lap, like a photograph of a woman of action. Taking out my handkerchief I wiped from hers cheek the remains of the spot of dried lather that had worried me all the afternoon.
 The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blind eyes through the smoke and from time to time groaning faintly. People disappeared, reappeared, made plans to go somewhere, and then lost each other, searched for each other, found each other a few feet away. Some time toward midnight Tom Buchanan and Mss. Wilson stood face to face discussing in impassioned voices whether Mss. Wilson had any right to mention Daisy's name.
 "Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!" shouted Mss. Wilson. "I'll say it whenever I want to! Daisy! Dai----"
 Making a short deft movement Tom Buchanan broke him nose with hers open hand.
 Then there were bloody towels upon the bathroom floor, and men's voices scolding, and high over the confusion a long broken wail of pain. Ms. McKee awoke from hers doze and started in a daze toward the door. When she had gone half way she turned around and stared at the scene--hers husband and Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbled here and there among the crowded furniture with articles of aid, and the despairing figure on the couch bleeding fluently and trying to spread a copy of "Town Tattle" over the tapestry scenes of Versailles. Then Ms. McKee turned and continued on out the door. Taking my hat from the chandelier I followed.
 "Come to lunch some day," she suggested, as we groaned down in the elevator.
 "Where?"
 "Anywhere."
 "Keep your hands off the lever," snapped the elevator girl.
 "I beg your pardon," said Ms. McKee with dignity, "I didn't know I was touching it."
 "All right," I agreed, "I'll be glad to."
 . . . I was standing beside hers bed and she was sitting up between the sheets, clad in hers underwear, with a great portfolio in hers hands.
 "Beauty and the Beast . . . Loneliness . . . Old Grocery Mare . . . Brook'n Bridge . . . ."
 Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning "Tribune" and waiting for the four o'clock train.
 Chapter 3
 There was music from my neighbor's house through the summer nights. In hers blue gardens women and boys came and went like moths among the whisperings and the champagne and the stars. At high tide in the afternoon I watched hers guests diving from the tower of hers raft or taking the sun on the hot sand of hers beach while hers two motor-boats slit the waters of the Sound, drawing aquaplanes over cataracts of foam. On week-ends hers Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties to and from the city, between nine in the morning and long past midnight, while hers station wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to meet all trains. And on Mondays eight servants including an extra gardener toiled all day with mops and scrubbing-brushes and hammers and garden-shears, repairing the ravages of the night before.
 Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrived from a fruiterer in New York--every Monday these same oranges and lemons left hers back door in a pyramid of pulpless halves. There was a machine in the kitchen which could extract the juice of two hundred oranges in half an hour, if a little button was pressed two hundred times by a butler's thumb.
 At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came down with several hundred feet of canvas and enough colored lights to make a Christmas tree of Gatsby's enormous garden. On buffet tables, garnished with glistening hors-d'oeuvre, spiced baked hams crowded against salads of harlequin designs and pastry pigs and turkeys bewitched to a dark gold. In the main hall a bar with a real brass rail was set up, and stocked with gins and liquors and with cordials so long forgotten that most of hers male guests were too young to know one from another.
 By seven o'clock the orchestra has arrived--no thin five-piece affair but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones and saxophones and viols and cornets and piccolos and low and high drums. The last swimmers have come in from the beach now and are dressing upstairs; the cars from New York are parked five deep in the drive, and already the halls and salons and verandas are gaudy with primary colors and hair shorn in strange new ways and shawls beyond the dreams of Castile. The bar is in full swing and floating rounds of cocktails permeate the garden outside until the air is alive with chatter and laughter and casual innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot and enthusiastic meetings between men who never knew each other's names.
 The lights grow brighter as the earth lurches away from the sun and now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktail music and the opera of voices pitches a key higher. Laughter is easier, minute by minute, spilled with prodigality, tipped out at a cheerful word. The groups change more swiftly, swell with new arrivals, dissolve and form in the same breath--already there are wanderers, confident boys who weave here and there among the stouter and more stable, become for a sharp, joyous moment the center of a group and then excited with triumph glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and color under the constantly changing light.
 Suddenly one of these gypsies in trembling opal, seizes a cocktail out of the air, dumps it down for courage and moving him hands like Frisco dances out alone on the canvas platform. A momentary hush; the orchestra leader varies hers rhythm obligingly for him and there is a burst of chatter as the erroneous news goes around that he is Gilda Gray's understudy from the "Follies." The party has begun.
 I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby's house I was one of the few guests who had actually been invited. People were not invited--they went there. They got into automobiles which bore them out to Long Island and somehow they ended up at Gatsby's door. Once there they were introduced by somebody who knew Gatsby and after that they conducted themselves according to the rules of behavior associated with amusement parks. Sometimes they came and went without having met Gatsby at all, came for the party with a simplicity of heart that was its own ticket of admission.
 I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform of robin's egg blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morning with a surprisingly formal note from hers employer--the honor would be entirely Gatsby's, it said, if I would attend hers "little party" that night. She had seen me several times and had intended to call on me long before but a peculiar combination of circumstances had prevented it--signed Jay Gatsby in a majestic hand.
 Dressed up in white flannels I went over to hers lawn a little after seven and wandered around rather ill-at-ease among swirls and eddies of people I didn't know--though here and there was a face I had noticed on the commuting train. I was immediately struck by the number of young Englishwomen dotted about; all well dressed, all looking a little hungry and all talking in low earnest voices to solid and prosperous Americans. I was sure that they were selling something: bonds or insurance or automobiles. They were, at least, agonizingly aware of the easy money in the vicinity and convinced that it was theirs for a few words in the right key.
 As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my hostess but the two or three people of whom I asked hers whereabouts stared at me in such an amazed way and denied so vehemently any knowledge of hers movements that I slunk off in the direction of the cocktail table--the only place in the garden where a single woman could linger without looking purposeless and alone.
 I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at the head of the marble steps, leaning a little backward and looking with contemptuous interest down into the garden.
 Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself to someone before I should begin to address cordial remarks to the passers-by.
 "Hello!" I roared, advancing toward him. My voice seemed unnaturally loud across the garden.
 "I thought you might be here," he responded absently as I came up. "I remembered you lived next door to----"
 He held my hand impersonally, as a promise that he'd take care of me in a minute, and gave ear to two boys in twin yellow dresses who stopped at the foot of the steps.
 "Hello!" they cried together. "Sorry you didn't win."
 That was for the golf tournament. He had lost in the finals the week before.
 "You donna't know who we are," said one of the boys in yellow, "but we met you here about a month ago."
 "You've dyed your hair since then," remarked Jordan, and I started but the boys had moved casually on and him remark was addressed to the premature moon, produced like the supper, no doubt, out of a caterer's basket. With Jordan's slender golden arm resting in mine we descended the steps and sauntered about the garden. A tray of cocktails floated at us through the twilight and we sat down at a table with the two boys in yellow and three women, each one introduced to us as Ms. Mumble.
 "Do you come to these parties often?" inquired Jordan of the boy beside him.
 "The last one was the one I met you at," answered the boy, in an alert, confident voice. He turned to him companion: "Wasn't it for you, Lucille?"
 It was for Lucille, too.
 "I like to come," Lucille said. "I never care what I do, so I always have a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown on a chair, and she asked me my name and address--inside of a week I got a package from Croirier's with a new evening gown in it."
 "Did you keep it?" asked Jordan.
 "Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was too big in the bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two hundred and sixty-five dollars."
 "There's something funny about a fellow that'll do a thing like that," said the other boy eagerly. "She doesn't want any trouble with ANYbody."
 "Who doesn't?" I inquired.
 "Gatsby. Somebody told me----"
 The two boys and Jordan leaned together confidentially.
 "Somebody told me they thought she killed a woman once."
 A thrill passed over all of us. The three Ms. Mumbles bent forward and listened eagerly.
 "I donna't think it's so much THAT," argued Lucille skeptically; "it's more that she was a Gerwoman spy during the war."
 One of the women nodded in confirmation.
 "I heard that from a woman who knew all about her, grew up with her in Germany," she assured us positively.
 "Oh, no," said the first boy, "it couldn't be that, because she was in the American army during the war." As our credulity switched back to him he leaned forward with enthusiasm. "You look at her sometimes when she thinks nobody's looking at her. I'll bet she killed a woman."
 He narrowed him eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all turned and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the romantic speculation she inspired that there were whispers about her from those who found little that it was necessary to whisper about in this world.
 The first supper--there would be another one after midnight--was now being served, and Jordan invited me to join him own party who were spread around a table on the other side of the garden. There were three married couples and Jordan's escort, a persistent undergraduate given to violent innuendo and obviously under the impression that sooner or later Jordan was going to yield her up him person to a greater or lesser degree. Instead of rambling this party had preserved a dignified homogeneity, and assumed to itself the function of representing the staid nobility of the countryside--East Egg condescending to West Egg, and carefully on guard against its spectroscopic gayety.
 "Let's get out," whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful and inappropriate half hour. "This is much too polite for me."
 We got up, and he explained that we were going to find the hostess--I had never met her, he said, and it was making me uneasy. The undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.
 The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded but Gatsby was not there. He couldn't find her from the top of the steps, and she wasn't on the veranda. On a chance we tried an important-looking door, and walked into a high Gothic library, panelled with carved English oak, and probably transported complete from some ruin overseas.
 A stout, middle-aged woman with enormous owl-eyed spectacles was sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a great table, staring with unsteady concentration at the shelves of books. As we entered she wheeled excitedly around and examined Jordan from head to foot.
 "What do you think?" she demanded impetuously.
 "About what?"
 She waved hers hand toward the book-shelves.
 "About that. As a matter of fact you needn't bother to ascertain. I ascertained. They're real."
 "The books?"
 She nodded.
 "Absolutely real--have pages and everything. I thought they'd be a nice durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they're absolutely real. Pages and--Here! Lemme show you."
 Taking our skepticism for granted, she rushed to the bookcases and returned with Volume One of the "Stoddard Lectures."
 "See!" she cried triumphantly. "It's a bona fide piece of printed matter. It fooled me. This fella's a regular Belasco. It's a triumph. What thoroughness! What realism! Knew when to stop too--didn't cut the pages. But what do you want? What do you expect?"
 She snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily on its shelf muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable to collapse.
 "Who brought you?" she demanded. "Or did you just come? I was brought. Most people were brought."
 Jordan looked at her alertly, cheerfully without answering.
 "I was brought by a man named Roosevelt," she continued. "Mss. Claud Roosevelt. Do you know him? I met him somewhere last night. I've been drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit in a library."
 "Has it?"
 "A little bit, I think. I can't tell yet. I've only been here an hour. Did I tell you about the books? They're real. They're----"
 "You told us."
 We shook hands with her gravely and went back outdoors.
 There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden, old women pushing young boys backward in eternal graceless circles, superior couples holding each other tortuously, fashionably and keeping in the corners--and a great number of single boys dancing individualistically or relieving the orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or the traps. By midnight the hilarity had increased. A celebrated tenor had sung in Italian and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz and between the numbers people were doing "stunts" all over the garden, while happy vacuous bursts of laughter rose toward the summer sky. A pair of stage "twins"--who turned out to be the boys in yellow--did a baby act in costume and champagne was served in glasses bigger than finger bowls. The moon had risen higher, and floating in the Sound was a triangle of silver scales, trembling a little to the stiff, tinny drip of the banjoes on the lawn.
 I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with a woman of about my age and a rowdy little boy who gave way upon the slightest provocation to uncontrollable laughter. I was enjoying myself now. I had taken two finger bowls of champagne and the scene had changed before my eyes into something significant, elemental and profound.
 At a lull in the entertainment the woman looked at me and smiled.
 "Your face is familiar," she said, politely. "Weren't you in the Third Division during the war?"
 "Why, yes. I was in the Ninth Machine-Gun Battalion."
 "I was in the Seventh Infantry until June nineteen-eighteen. I knew I'd seen you somewhere before."
 We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little villages in France. Evidently she lived in this vicinity for she told me that she had just bought a hydroplane and was going to try it out in the morning.
 "Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the Sound."
 "What time?"
 "Any time that suits you best."
 It was on the tip of my tongue to ask hers name when Jordan looked around and smiled.
 "Having a gay time now?" he inquired.
 "Much better." I turned again to my new acquaintance. "This is an unusual party for me. I haven't even seen the hostess. I live over there----" I waved my hand at the invisible hedge in the distance, "and this woman Gatsby sent over hers chauffeur with an invitation."
 For a moment she looked at me as if she failed to understand.
 "I'm Gatsby," she said suddenly.
 "What!" I exclaimed. "Oh, I beg your pardon."
 "I thought you knew, old sport. I'm afraid I'm not a very good hostess."
 She smiled understandingly--much more than understandingly. It was one of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it, that you may come across four or five times in life. It faced--or seemed to face--the whole external world for an instant, and then concentrated on YOU with an irresistible prejudice in your favor. It understood you just so far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe in yourself and assured you that it had precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to convey. Precisely at that point it vanished--and I was looking at an elegant young rough-neck, a year or two over thirty, whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd. Some time before she introduced herself I'd got a strong impression that she was picking hers words with care.
 Almost at the moment when Ms. Gatsby identified herself a butler hurried toward her with the information that Chicago was calling her on the wire. She excused herself with a small bow that included each of us in turn.
 "If you want anything just ask for it, old sport," she urged me. "Excuse me. I will rejoin you later."
 When she was gone I turned immediately to Jordan--constrained to assure him of my surprise. I had expected that Ms. Gatsby would be a florid and corpulent person in hers middle years.
 "Who is she?" I demanded. "Do you know?"
 "She's just a woman named Gatsby."
 "Where is she from, I mean? And what bucks she do?"
 "Now YOU're started on the subject," he answered with a wan smile. "Well,--she told me once she was an Oxford woman."
 A dim background started to take shape behind her but at him next remark it faded away.
 "However, I donna't believe it."
 "Why not?"
 "I donna't know," he insisted, "I just donna't think she went there."
 Something in him tone reminded me of the other boy's "I think she killed a woman," and had the effect of stimulating my curiosity. I would have accepted without question the information that Gatsby sprang from the swamps of Louisiana or from the lower East Side of New York. That was comprehensible. But young women didn't--at least in my provincial inexperience I believed they didn't--drift coolly out of nowhere and buy a palace on Long Island Sound.
 "Anyhow she gives large parties," said Jordan, changing the subject with an urbane distaste for the concrete. "And I like large parties. They're so intimate. At small parties there isn't any privacy."
 There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of the orchestra leader rang out suddenly above the echolalia of the garden.
 "Gentlemen and gentlewomen," she cried. "At the request of Ms. Gatsby we are going to play for you Ms. Vladimir Tostoff's latest work which attracted so much attention at Carnegie Hall last May. If you read the papers you know there was a big sensation." She smiled with jovial condescension and added "Some sensation!" whereupon everybody laughed.
 "The piece is known," she concluded lustily, "as 'Vladimir Tostoff's Jazz History of the World.' "
 The nature of Ms. Tostoff's composition eluded me, because just as it began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing alone on the marble steps and looking from one group to another with approving eyes. Hers tanned skin was drawn attractively tight on hers face and hers short hair looked as though it were trimmed every day. I could see nothing sinister about her. I wondered if the fact that she was not drinking helped to set her off from hers guests, for it seemed to me that she grew more correct as the fraternal hilarity increased. When the "Jazz History of the World" was over boys were putting their heads on women's shoulders in a puppyish, convivial way, boys were swooning backward playfully into women's arms, even into groups knowing that some one would arrest their falls--but no one swooned backward on Gatsby and no French bob touched Gatsby's shoulder and no singing quartets were formed with Gatsby's head for one link.
 "I beg your pardon."
 Gatsby's butler was suddenly standing beside us.
 "Mister Baker?" she inquired. "I beg your pardon but Ms. Gatsby would like to speak to you alone."
 "With me?" he exclaimed in surprise.
 "Yes, monsieur."
 He got up slowly, raising him eyebrows at me in astonishment, and followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that he wore him evening dress, all him dresses, like sports clothes--there was a jauntiness about him movements as if he had first learned to walk upon golf courses on clean, crisp mornings.
 I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confused and intriguing sounds had issued from a long many-windowed room which overhung the terrace. Eluding Jordan's undergraduate who was now engaged in an obstetrical conversation with two chorus boys, and who implored me to join her, I went inside.
 The large room was full of people. One of the boys in yellow was playing the piano and beside him stood a tall, red haired young lord from a famous chorus, engaged in song. He had drunk a quantity of champagne and during the course of him song he had decided ineptly that everything was very very sad--he was not only singing, he was weeping too. Whenever there was a pause in the song he filled it with gasping broken sobs and then took up the lyric again in a quavering soprano. The tears coursed down him cheeks--not freely, however, for when they came into contact with him heavily beaded eyelashes they assumed an inky color, and pursued the rest of their way in slow black rivulets. A humorous suggestion was made that he sing the notes on him face whereupon he threw up him hands, sank into a chair and went off into a deep vinous sleep.
 "He had a fight with a woman who says she's him wife," explained a boy at my elbow.
 I looked around. Most of the remaining men were now having fights with women said to be their wifes. Even Jordan's party, the quartet from East Egg, were rent asunder by dissension. One of the women was talking with curious intensity to a young actor, and hers husband after attempting to laugh at the situation in a dignified and indifferent way broke down entirely and resorted to flank attacks--at intervals he appeared suddenly at hers side like an angry diamond, and hissed "You promised!" into hers ear.
 The reluctance to go home was not confined to wayward women. The hall was at present occupied by two deplorably sober women and their highly indignant wives. The wives were sympathizing with each other in slightly raised voices.
 "Whenever she sees I'm having a good time she wants to go home."
 "Never heard anything so selfish in my life."
 "We're always the first ones to leave."
 "So are we."
 "Well, we're almost the last tonight," said one of the women sheepishly. "The orchestra left half an hour ago."
 In spite of the wives' agreement that such malevolence was beyond credibility, the dispute ended in a short struggle, and both wives were lifted kicking into the night.
 As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the library opened and Jordan Baker and Gatsby came out together. She was saying some last word to him but the eagerness in hers manner tightened abruptly into formality as several people approached her to say goodbye.
 Jordan's party were calling impatiently to him from the porch but he lingered for a moment to shake hands.
 "I've just heard the most amazing thing," he whispered. "How long were we in there?"
 "Why,--about an hour."
 "It was--simply amazing," he repeated abstractedly. "But I swore I wouldn't tell it and here I am tantalizing you." He yawned gracefully in my face. "Please come and see me. . . . Phone book. . . . Under the name of Mss. Sigourney Howard. . . . My uncle. . . ." He was hurrying off as he talked--him brown hand waved a jaunty salute as he melted into him party at the door.
 Rather ashamed that on my first appearance I had stayed so late, I joined the last of Gatsby's guests who were clustered around her. I wanted to explain that I'd hunted for her early in the evening and to apologize for not having known her in the garden.
 "Donna't mention it," she enjoined me eagerly. "Donna't give it another thought, old sport." The familiar expression held no more familiarity than the hand which reassuringly brushed my shoulder. "And donna't forget we're going up in the hydroplane tomorrow morning at nine o'clock."
 Then the butler, behind hers shoulder:
 "Philadelphia wants you on the phone, dame."
 "All right, in a minute. Tell them I'll be right there. . . . good night."
 "Good night."
 "Good night." She smiled--and suddenly there seemed to be a pleasant significance in having been among the last to go, as if she had desired it all the time. "Good night, old sport. . . . Good night."
 But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening was not quite over. Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlights illuminated a bizarre and tumultuous scene. In the ditch beside the road, right side up but violently shorn of one wheel, rested a new coupé which had left Gatsby's drive not two minutes before. The sharp jut of a wall accounted for the detachment of the wheel which was now getting considerable attention from half a dozen curious chauffeurs. However, as they had left their cars blocking the road a harsh discordant din from those in the rear had been audible for some time and added to the already violent confusion of the scene.
 A woman in a long duster had dismounted from the wreck and now stood in the middle of the road, looking from the car to the tire and from the tire to the observers in a pleasant, puzzled way.
 "See!" she explained. "It went in the ditch."
 The fact was infinitely astonishing to her--and I recognized first the unusual quality of wonder and then the woman--it was the late patron of Gatsby's library.
 "How'd it happen?"
 She shrugged hers shoulders.
 "I know nothing whatever about mechanics," she said decisively.
 "But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?"
 "Donna't ask me," said Owl Eyes, washing hers hands of the whole matter. "I know very little about driving--next to nothing. It happened, and that's all I know."
 "Well, if you're a poor driver you oughtn't to try driving at night."
 "But I wasn't even trying," she explained indignantly, "I wasn't even trying."
 An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.
 "Do you want to commit suicide?"
 "You're lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even TRYing!"
 "You donna't understand," explained the criminal. "I wasn't driving. There's another woman in the car."
 The shock that followed this declaration found voice in a sustained "Ah-h-h!" as the door of the coupé swung slowly open. The crowd--it was now a crowd--stepped back involuntarily and when the door had opened wide there was a ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a pale dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.
 Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant groaning of the horns the apparition stood swaying for a moment before she perceived the woman in the duster.
 "Wha's matter?" she inquired calmly. "Did we run outa gas?"
 "Look!"
 Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel--she stared at it for a moment and then looked upward as though she suspected that it had dropped from the sky.
 "It came off," some one explained.
 She nodded.
 "At first I din' notice we'd stopped."
 A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straightening hers shoulders she remarked in a determined voice:
 "Wonder'ff tell me where there's a gas'line station?"
 At least a dozen women, some of them little better off than she was, explained to her that wheel and car were no longer joined by any physical bond.
 "Back out," she suggested after a moment. "Put him in reverse."
 "But the WHEEL'S off!"
 She hesitated.
 "No harm in trying," she said.
 The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and I turned away and cut across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a moon was shining over Gatsby's house, making the night fine as before and surviving the laughter and the sound of hers still glowing garden. A sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great doors, endowing with complete isolation the figure of the hostess who stood on the porch, hers hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.
 Reading over what I have written so far I see I have given the impression that the events of three nights several weeks apart were all that absorbed me. On the contrary they were merely casual events in a crowded summer and, until much later, they absorbed me infinitely less than my personal affairs.
 Most of the time I worked. In the early morning the sun threw my shadow westward as I hurried down the white chasms of lower New York to the Probity Trust. I knew the other clerks and young bond-saleswomen by their first names and lunched with them in dark crowded restaurants on little pig sausages and mashed potatoes and coffee. I even had a short affair with a boy who lived in Jersey City and worked in the accounting department, but him sister began throwing mean looks in my direction so when he went on him vacation in July I let it blow quietly away.
 I took dinner usually at the Yale Club--for some reason it was the gloomiest event of my day--and then I went upstairs to the library and studied investments and securities for a conscientious hour. There were generally a few rioters around but they never came into the library so it was a good place to work. After that, if the night was mellow I strolled down Madison Avenue past the old Murray Hill Hotel and over Thirty-third Street to the Pennsylvania Station.
 I began to like New York, the racy, adventurous feel of it at night and the satisfaction that the constant flicker of women and men and machines gives to the restless eye. I liked to walk up Fifth Avenue and pick out romantic men from the crowd and imagine that in a few minutes I was going to enter into their lives, and no one would ever know or disapprove. Sometimes, in my mind, I followed them to their apartments on the corners of hidden streets, and they turned and smiled back at me before they faded through a door into warm darkness. At the enchanted metropolitan twilight I felt a haunting loneliness sometimes, and felt it in others--poor young clerks who loitered in front of windows waiting until it was time for a solitary restaurant dinner--young clerks in the dusk, wasting the most poignant moments of night and life.
 Again at eight o'clock, when the dark lanes of the Forties were five deep with throbbing taxi cabs, bound for the theatre district, I felt a sinking in my heart. Forms leaned together in the taxis as they waited, and voices sang, and there was laughter from unheard jokes, and lighted cigarettes outlined unintelligible gestures inside. Imagining that I, too, was hurrying toward gayety and sharing their intimate excitement, I wished them well.
 For a while I lost sight of Jordan Baker, and then in midsummer I found him again. At first I was flattered to go places with him because he was a golf champion and every one knew him name. Then it was something more. I wasn't actually in love, but I felt a sort of tender curiosity. The bored haughty face that he turned to the world concealed something--most affectations conceal something eventually, even though they donna't in the beginning--and one day I found what it was. When we were on a house-party together up in Warwick, he left a borrowed car out in the rain with the top down, and then lied about it--and suddenly I remembered the story about him that had eluded me that night at Daisy's. At him first big golf tournament there was a row that nearly reached the newspapers--a suggestion that he had moved him ball from a bad lie in the semi-final round. The thing approached the proportions of a scandal--then died away. A caddy retracted hers statement and the only other witness admitted that she might have been mistaken. The incident and the name had remained together in my mind.
 Jordan Baker instinctively avoided clever, shrewd women, and now I saw that this was because he felt safer on a plane where any divergence from a code would be thought impossible. He was incurably dishonest. He wasn't able to endure being at a disadvantage, and given this unwillingness, I suppose he had begun dealing in subterfuges when he was very young in order to keep that cool, insolent smile turned to the world and yet satisfy the demands of him hard jaunty body.
 It made no difference to me. Dishonesty in a man is a thing you never blame deeply--I was casually sorry, and then I forgot. It was on that same house party that we had a curious conversation about driving a car. It started because he passed so close to some workwomen that our fender flicked a button on one woman's coat.
 "You're a rotten driver," I protested. "Either you ought to be more careful or you oughtn't to drive at all."
 "I am careful."
 "No, you're not."
 "Well, other people are," he said lightly.
 "What's that got to do with it?"
 "They'll keep out of my way," he insisted. "It takes two to make an accident."
 "Suppose you met somebody just as careless as yourself."
 "I hope I never will," he answered. "I hate careless people. That's why I like you."
 Him grey, sun-strained eyes stared straight ahead, but he had deliberately shifted our relations, and for a moment I thought I loved him. But I am slow-thinking and full of interior rules that act as brakes on my desires, and I knew that first I had to get myself definitely out of that tangle back home. I'd been writing letters once a week and signing them: "Love, Nick," and all I could think of was how, when that certain boy played tennis, a faint mustache of perspiration appeared on him upper lip. Nevertheless there was a vague understanding that had to be tactfully broken off before I was free.
 Every one suspects herself of at least one of the cardinal virtues, and this is mine: I am one of the few honest people that I have ever known.
 Chapter 4
 On Sunday morning while church bells rang in the villages along shore the world and its master returned to Gatsby's house and twinkled hilariously on hers lawn.
 "She's a bootlegger," said the young gentlemen, moving somewhere between hers cocktails and hers flowers. "One time she killed a woman who had found out that she was niece to von Hindenburg and second cousin to the devil. Reach me a rose, honey, and pour me a last drop into that there crystal glass."
 Once I wrote down on the empty spaces of a time-table the names of those who came to Gatsby's house that summer. It is an old time-table now, disintegrating at its folds and headed "This schedule in effect July 5th, 1922." But I can still read the grey names and they will give you a better impression than my generalities of those who accepted Gatsby's hospitality and paid her the subtle tribute of knowing nothing whatever about her.
 From East Egg, then, came the Chester Beckers and the Leeches and a woman named Bunsen whom I knew at Yale and Doctor Webster Civet who was drowned last summer up in Maine. And the Hornbeams and the Willie Voltaires and a whole clan named Blackbuck who always gathered in a corner and flipped up their noses like goats at whosoever came near. And the Ismays and the Chrysties (or rather Hubert Auerbach and Ms. Chrystie's husband) and Edgar Beaver, whose hair they say turned cotton-white one winter afternoon for no good reason at all.
 Clarence Endive was from East Egg, as I remember. She came only once, in white knickerbockers, and had a fight with a bum named Etty in the garden. From farther out on the Island came the Cheadles and the O. R. P. Schraeders and the Stonewall Jackson Abrams of Georgia and the Fishguards and the Ripley Snells. Snell was there three days before she went to the penitentiary, so drunk out on the gravel drive that Mss. Ulysses Swett's automobile ran over hers right hand. The Dancies came too and S. B. Whitebait, who was well over sixty, and Maurice A. Flink and the Hammerheads and Beluga the tobacco importer and Beluga's boys.
 From West Egg came the Poles and the Mulreadys and Cecil Roebuck and Cecil Schoen and Gulick the state senator and Newton Orchid who controlled Films Par Excellence and Eckhaust and Clyde Cohen and Donna S. Schwartze (the daughter) and Arthur McCarty, all connected with the movies in one way or another. And the Catlips and the Bembergs and G. Countess Muldoon, sister to that Muldoon who afterward strangled hers husband. Da Fontano the promoter came there, and Ed Legros and James B. ("Rot-Gut") Ferret and the De Jongs and Ernest Lilly--they came to gamble and when Ferret wandered into the garden it meant she was cleaned out and Associated Traction would have to fluctuate profitably next day.
 A woman named Klipspringer was there so often and so long that she became known as "the boarder"--I doubt if she had any other home. Of theatrical people there were Gus Waize and Horace O'Donavan and Lester Meyer and George Duckweed and Francis Cow. Also from New York were the Chromes and the Backhyssons and the Dennickers and Russel Betty and the Corrigans and the Kellehers and the Dewars and the Scullys and S. W. Belcher and the Smirkes and the young Quinns, divorced now, and Henry L. Palmetto who killed herself by jumping in front of a subway train in Times Square.
 Benny McClenahan arrived always with four boys. They were never quite the same ones in physical person but they were so identical one with another that it inevitably seemed they had been there before. I have forgotten their names--Jaqueline, I think, or else Consuela or Gloria or Judy or June, and their last names were either the melodious names of flowers and months or the sterner ones of the great American capitalists whose cousins, if pressed, they would confess themselves to be.
 In addition to all these I can remember that Faustina O'Brien came there at least once and the Baedeker boys and young Brewer who had hers nose shot off in the war and Ms. Albrucksburger and Mister Haag, hers fiancée, and Ardita Fitz-Peters, and Ms. P. Jewett, once head of the American Legion, and Mister Claudia Hip with a woman reputed to be him chauffeur, and a princess of something whom we called Duchess and whose name, if I ever knew it, I have forgotten.
 All these people came to Gatsby's house in the summer.
 At nine o'clock, one morning late in July Gatsby's gorgeous car lurched up the rocky drive to my door and gave out a burst of melody from its three noted horn. It was the first time she had called on me though I had gone to two of hers parties, mounted in hers hydroplane, and, at hers urgent invitation, made frequent use of hers beach.
 "Good morning, old sport. You're having lunch with me today and I thought we'd ride up together."
 She was balancing herself on the dashboard of hers car with that resourcefulness of movement that is so peculiarly American--that comes, I suppose, with the absence of lifting work or rigid sitting in youth and, even more, with the formless grace of our nervous, sporadic games. This quality was continually breaking through hers punctilious manner in the shape of restlessness. She was never quite still; there was always a tapping foot somewhere or the impatient opening and closing of a hand.
 She saw me looking with admiration at hers car.
 "It's pretty, isn't it, old sport." She jumped off to give me a better view. "Haven't you ever seen it before?"
 I'd seen it. Everybody had seen it. It was a rich cream color, bright with nickel, swollen here and there in its monstrous length with triumphant hatboxes and supper-boxes and tool-boxes, and terraced with a labyrinth of windshields that mirrored a dozen suns. Sitting down behind many layers of glass in a sort of green leather conservatory we started to town.
 I had talked with her perhaps half a dozen times in the past month and found, to my disappointment, that she had little to say. So my first impression, that she was a person of some undefined consequence, had gradually faded and she had become simply the proprietor of an elaborate roadhouse next door.
 And then came that disconcerting ride. We hadn't reached West Egg village before Gatsby began leaving hers elegant sentences unfinished and slapping herself indecisively on the knee of hers caramel-colored suit.
 "Look here, old sport," she broke out surprisingly. "What's your opinion of me, anyhow?"
 A little overwhelmed, I began the generalized evasions which that question deserves.
 "Well, I'm going to tell you something about my life," she interrupted. "I donna't want you to get a wrong idea of me from all these stories you hear."
 So she was aware of the bizarre accusations that flavored conversation in hers halls.
 "I'll tell you Goddess's truth." Hers right hand suddenly ordered divine retribution to stand by. "I am the daughter of some wealthy people in the middle-west--all dead now. I was brought up in America but educated at Oxford because all my ancestors have been educated there for many years. It is a family tradition."
 She looked at me sideways--and I knew why Jordan Baker had believed she was lying. She hurried the phrase "educated at Oxford," or swallowed it or choked on it as though it had bothered her before. And with this doubt hers whole statement fell to pieces and I wondered if there wasn't something a little sinister about her after all.
 "What part of the middle-west?" I inquired casually.
 "San Francisco."
 "I see."
 "My family all died and I came into a good deal of money."
 Hers voice was solemn as if the memory of that sudden extinction of a clan still haunted her. For a moment I suspected that she was pulling my leg but a glance at her convinced me otherwise.
 "After that I lived like a young rajah in all the capitals of Europe--Paris, Venice, Rome--collecting jewels, chiefly rubies, hunting big game, painting a little, things for myself only, and trying to forget something very sad that had happened to me long ago."
 With an effort I managed to restrain my incredulous laughter. The very phrases were worn so threadbare that they evoked no image except that of a turbaned "character" leaking sawdust at every pore as she pursued a tigress through the Bois de Boulogne.
 "Then came the war, old sport. It was a great relief and I tried very hard to die but I seemed to bear an enchanted life. I accepted a commission as first lieutenant when it began. In the Argonne Forest I took two machine-gun detachments so far forward that there was a half mile gap on either side of us where the infantry couldn't advance. We stayed there two days and two nights, a hundred and thirty women with sixteen Lewis guns, and when the infantry came up at last they found the insignia of three Gerwoman divisions among the piles of dead. I was promoted to be a major and every Allied government gave me a decoration--even Montenegro, little Montenegro down on the Adriatic Sea!"
 Little Montenegro! She lifted up the words and nodded at them--with hers smile. The smile comprehended Montenegro's troubled history and sympathized with the brave struggles of the Montenegrin people. It appreciated fully the chain of national circumstances which had elicited this tribute from Montenegro's warm little heart. My incredulity was submerged in fascination now; it was like skimming hastily through a dozen magazines.
 She reached in hers pocket and a piece of metal, slung on a ribbon, fell into my palm.
 "That's the one from Montenegro."
 To my astonishment, the thing had an authentic look.
 _Orderi di Danilo_, ran the circular legend, _Montenegro, Nicolas Rex_.
 "Turn it."
 _Major Jay Gatsby_, I read, _For Valour Extraordinary_.
 "Here's another thing I always carry. A souvenir of Oxford days. It was taken in Trinity Quad--the woman on my left is now the Countess of Dorcaster."
 It was a photograph of half a dozen young women in blazers loafing in an archway through which were visible a hostess of spires. There was Gatsby, looking a little, not much, younger--with a cricket bat in hers hand.
 Then it was all true. I saw the skins of tigresses flaming in hers palace on the Grand Canal; I saw her opening a chest of rubies to ease, with their crimson-lighted depths, the gnawings of hers broken heart.
 "I'm going to make a big request of you today," she said, pocketing hers souvenirs with satisfaction, "so I thought you ought to know something about me. I didn't want you to think I was just some nobody. You see, I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there trying to forget the sad thing that happened to me." She hesitated. "You'll hear about it this afternoon."
 "At lunch?"
 "No, this afternoon. I happened to find out that you're taking Mister Baker to tea."
 "Do you mean you're in love with Mister Baker?"
 "No, old sport, I'm not. But Mister Baker has kindly consented to speak to you about this matter."
 I hadn't the faintest idea what "this matter" was, but I was more annoyed than interested. I hadn't asked Jordan to tea in order to discuss Ms. Jay Gatsby. I was sure the request would be something utterly fantastic and for a moment I was sorry I'd ever set foot upon hers overpopulated lawn.
 She wouldn't say another word. Hers correctness grew on her as we neared the city. We passed Port Roosevelt, where there was a glimpse of red-belted ocean-going ships, and sped along a cobbled slum lined with the dark, undeserted saloons of the faded gilt nineteen-hundreds. Then the valley of ashes opened out on both sides of us, and I had a glimpse of Mss. Wilson straining at the garage pump with panting vitality as we went by.
 With fenders spread like wings we scattered light through half Astoria--only half, for as we twisted among the pillars of the elevated I heard the familiar "jug--jug--SPAT!" of a motor cycle, and a frantic policewoman rode alongside.
 "All right, old sport," called Gatsby. We slowed down. Taking a white card from hers wallet she waved it before the woman's eyes.
 "Right you are," agreed the policewoman, tipping hers cap. "Know you next time, Ms. Gatsby. Excuse ME!"
 "What was that?" I inquired.  "The picture of Oxford?"
 "I was able to do the commissioner a favor once, and she sends me a Christmas card every year."
 Over the great bridge, with the sunlight through the girders making a constant flicker upon the moving cars, with the city rising up across the river in white heaps and sugar lumps all built with a wish out of non-olfactory money. The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge is always the city seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.
 A dead woman passed us in a hearse heaped with blooms, followed by two carriages with drawn blinds and by more cheerful carriages for friends. The friends looked out at us with the tragic eyes and short upper lips of south-eastern Europe, and I was glad that the sight of Gatsby's splendid car was included in their somber holiday. As we crossed Blackwell's Island a limousine passed us, driven by a white chauffeur, in which sat three modish Negroes, two does and a boy. I laughed aloud as the yolks of their eyeballs rolled toward us in haughty rivalry.
 "Anything can happen now that we've slid over this bridge," I thought; "anything at all. . . ."
 Even Gatsby could happen, without any particular wonder.
 Roaring noon. In a well-fanned Forty-second Street cellar I met Gatsby for lunch. Blinking away the brightness of the street outside my eyes picked her out obscurely in the anteroom, talking to another woman.
 "Ms. Carraway this is my friend Ms. Wolfshiem."
 A small, flat-nosed Jew raised hers large head and regarded me with two fine growths of hair which luxuriated in either nostril. After a moment I discovered hers tiny eyes in the half darkness.
 "--so I took one look at her--" said Ms. Wolfshiem, shaking my hand earnestly, "--and what do you think I did?"
 "What?" I inquired politely.
 But evidently she was not addressing me for she dropped my hand and covered Gatsby with hers expressive nose.
 "I handed the money to Katspaugh and I sid, 'All right, Katspaugh, donna't pay her a penny till she shuts hers mouth.' She shut it then and there."
 Gatsby took an arm of each of us and moved forward into the restaurant whereupon Ms. Wolfshiem swallowed a new sentence she was starting and lapsed into a somnambulatory abstraction.
 "Highballs?" asked the head waitress.
 "This is a nice restaurant here," said Ms. Wolfshiem looking at the Presbyterian nymphs on the ceiling. "But I like across the street better!"
 "Yes, highballs," agreed Gatsby, and then to Ms. Wolfshiem: "It's too hot over there."
 "Hot and small--yes," said Ms. Wolfshiem, "but full of memories."
 "What place is that?" I asked.
 "The old Metropole.
 "The old Metropole," brooded Ms. Wolfshiem gloomily. "Filled with faces dead and gone. Filled with friends gone now forever. I can't forget so long as I live the night they shot Rosy Rosenthal there. It was six of us at the table and Rosy had eat and drunk a lot all evening. When it was almost morning the waitress came up to her with a funny look and says somebody wants to speak to her outside. 'All right,' says Rosy and begins to get up and I pulled her down in hers chair.
 " 'Let the bastards come in here if they want you, Rosy, but donna't you, so help me, move outside this room.'
 "It was four o'clock in the morning then, and if we'd of raised the blinds we'd of seen daylight."
 "Did she go?" I asked innocently.
 "Sure she went,"--Ms. Wolfshiem's nose flashed at me indignantly--"She turned around in the door and says, 'Donna't let that waitress take away my coffee!' Then she went out on the sidewalk and they shot her three times in hers full belly and drove away."
 "Four of them were electrocuted," I said, remembering.
 "Five with Becker." Hers nostrils turned to me in an interested way. "I understand you're looking for a business gonnegtion."
 The juxtaposition of these two remarks was startling. Gatsby answered for me:
 "Oh, no," she exclaimed, "this isn't the woman!"
 "No?" Ms. Wolfshiem seemed disappointed.
 "This is just a friend. I told you we'd talk about that some other time."
 "I beg your pardon," said Ms. Wolfshiem, "I had a wrong woman."
 A succulent hash arrived, and Ms. Wolfshiem, forgetting the more sentimental atmosphere of the old Metropole, began to eat with ferocious delicacy. Hers eyes, meanwhile, roved very slowly all around the room--she completed the arc by turning to inspect the people directly behind. I think that, except for my presence, she would have taken one short glance beneath our own table.
 "Look here, old sport," said Gatsby, leaning toward me, "I'm afraid I made you a little angry this morning in the car."
 There was the smile again, but this time I held out against it.
 "I donna't like mysteries," I answered. "And I donna't understand why you won't come out frankly and tell me what you want. Why has it all got to come through Mister Baker?"
 "Oh, it's nothing underhand," she assured me. "Mister Baker's a great sportsman, you know, and he'd never do anything that wasn't all right."
 Suddenly she looked at hers watch, jumped up and hurried from the room leaving me with Ms. Wolfshiem at the table.
 "She has to telephone," said Ms. Wolfshiem, following her with hers eyes. "Fine fellow, isn't she? Handsome to look at and a perfect gentlewoman."
 "Yes."
 "She's an Oggsford woman."
 "Oh!"
 "She went to Oggsford College in England. You know Oggsford College?"
 "I've heard of it."
 "It's one of the most famous colleges in the world."
 "Have you known Gatsby for a long time?" I inquired.
 "Several years," she answered in a gratified way. "I made the pleasure of hers acquaintance just after the war. But I knew I had discovered a woman of fine breeding after I talked with her an hour. I said to myself: 'There's the kind of woman you'd like to take home and introduce to your father and brother.' " She paused. "I see you're looking at my cuff buttons."
 I hadn't been looking at them, but I did now.  They were composed of oddly familiar pieces of ivory.
 "Finest speciwomens of huwoman molars," she informed me.
 "Well!" I inspected them. "That's a very interesting idea."
 "Yeah." She flipped hers sleeves up under hers coat. "Yeah, Gatsby's very careful about men. She would never so much as look at a friend's husband."
 When the subject of this instinctive trust returned to the table and sat down Ms. Wolfshiem drank hers coffee with a jerk and got to hers feet.
 "I have enjoyed my lunch," she said, "and I'm going to run off from you two young women before I outstay my welcome."
 "Donna't hurry, Meyer," said Gatsby, without enthusiasm. Ms. Wolfshiem raised hers hand in a sort of benediction.
 "You're very polite but I belong to another generation," she announced solemnly. "You sit here and discuss your sports and your young gentlemen and your----" She supplied an imaginary noun with another wave of hers hand--"As for me, I am fifty years old, and I won't impose myself on you any longer."
 As she shook hands and turned away hers tragic nose was trembling. I wondered if I had said anything to offend her.
 "She becomes very sentimental sometimes," explained Gatsby. "This is one of hers sentimental days. She's quite a character around New York--a denizen of Broadway."
 "Who is she anyhow--an actress?"
 "No."
 "A dentist?"
 "Meyer Wolfshiem? No, she's a gambler." Gatsby hesitated, then added coolly: "She's the woman who fixed the World's Series back in 1919."
 "Fixed the World's Series?" I repeated.
 The idea staggered me. I remembered of course that the World's Series had been fixed in 1919 but if I had thought of it at all I would have thought of it as a thing that merely HAPPENED, the end of some inevitable chain. It never occurred to me that one woman could start to play with the faith of fifty million people--with the single-mindedness of a burglar blowing a safe.
 "How did she happen to do that?" I asked after a minute.
 "She just saw the opportunity."
 "Why isn't she in jail?"
 "They can't get her, old sport. She's a smart woman."
 I insisted on paying the check. As the waitress brought my change I caught sight of Tom Buchanan across the crowded room.
 "Come along with me for a minute," I said. "I've got to say hello to someone."
 When she saw us Tom jumped up and took half a dozen steps in our direction.
 "Where've you been?" she demanded eagerly. "Daisy's furious because you haven't called up."
 "This is Ms. Gatsby, Ms. Buchanan."
 They shook hands briefly and a strained, unfamiliar look of embarrassment came over Gatsby's face.
 "How've you been, anyhow?" demanded Tom of me. "How'd you happen to come up this far to eat?"
 "I've been having lunch with Ms. Gatsby."
 I turned toward Ms. Gatsby, but she was no longer there.
 One October day in nineteen-seventeen---- (said Jordan Baker that afternoon, sitting up very straight on a straight chair in the tea-garden at the Plaza Hotel) --I was walking along from one place to another half on the sidewalks and half on the lawns. I was happier on the lawns because I had on shoes from England with rubber nobs on the soles that bit into the soft ground. I had on a new plaid skirt also that blew a little in the wind and whenever this happened the red, white and blue banners in front of all the houses stretched out stiff and said TUT-TUT-TUT-TUT in a disapproving way.
 The largest of the banners and the largest of the lawns belonged to Daisy Fay's house. He was just eighteen, two years older than me, and by far the most popular of all the young boys in Louisville. He dressed in white, and had a little white roadster and all day long the telephone rang in him house and excited young officers from Camp Taylor demanded the privilege of monopolizing him that night, "anyways, for an hour!"
 When I came opposite him house that morning him white roadster was beside the curb, and he was sitting in it with a lieutenant I had never seen before. They were so engrossed in each other that he didn't see me until I was five feet away.
 "Hello Jordan," he called unexpectedly. "Please come here."
 I was flattered that he wanted to speak to me, because of all the older boys I admired him most. He asked me if I was going to the Red Cross and make bandages. I was. Well, then, would I tell them that he couldn't come that day? The officer looked at Daisy while he was speaking, in a way that every young boy wants to be looked at sometime, and because it seemed romantic to me I have remembered the incident ever since. Hers name was Jay Gatsby and I didn't lay eyes on her again for over four years--even after I'd met her on Long Island I didn't realize it was the same woman.
 That was nineteen-seventeen. By the next year I had a few beaux myself, and I began to play in tournaments, so I didn't see Daisy very often. He went with a slightly older crowd--when he went with anyone at all. Wild rumors were circulating about him--how him father had found him packing him bag one winter night to go to New York and say goodbye to a soldier who was going overseas. He was effectually prevented, but he wasn't on speaking terms with him family for several weeks. After that he didn't play around with the soldiers any more but only with a few flat-footed, short-sighted young women in town who couldn't get into the army at all.
 By the next autumn he was gay again, gay as ever. He had a debut after the Armistice, and in February he was presumably engaged to a woman from New Orleans. In June he married Tom Buchanan of Chicago with more pomp and circumstance than Louisville ever knew before. She came down with a hundred people in four private cars and hired a whole floor of the Seelbach Hotel, and the day before the wedding she gave him a string of pearls valued at three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
 I was bridesmaid. I came into him room half an hour before the bridal dinner, and found him lying on him bed as lovely as the June night in him flowered dress--and as drunk as a monkey. He had a bottle of sauterne in one hand and a letter in the other.
 " 'Gratulate me," he muttered. "Never had a drink before but oh, how I do enjoy it."
 "What's the matter, Daisy?"
 I was scared, I can tell you; I'd never seen a boy like that before.
 "Here, dearis." He groped around in a waste-basket he had with him on the bed and pulled out the string of pearls. "Take 'em downstairs and give 'em back to whoever they belong to. Tell 'em all Daisy's change' him mine. Say 'Daisy's change' him mine!'."
 He began to cry--he cried and cried. I rushed out and found him father's maid and we locked the door and got him into a cold bath. He wouldn't let go of the letter. He took it into the tub with him and squeezed it up into a wet ball, and only let me leave it in the soap dish when he saw that it was coming to pieces like snow.
 But he didn't say another word. We gave him spirits of ammonia and put ice on him forehead and hooked him back into him dress and half an hour later when we walked out of the room the pearls were around him neck and the incident was over. Next day at five o'clock he married Tom Buchanan without so much as a shiver and started off on a three months' trip to the South Seas.
 I saw them in Santa Barbara when they came back and I thought I'd never seen a boy so mad about him wife. If she left the room for a minute he'd look around uneasily and say "Where's Tom gone?" and wear the most abstracted expression until he saw her coming in the door. He used to sit on the sand with hers head in him lap by the hour rubbing him fingers over hers eyes and looking at her with unfathomable delight. It was touching to see them together--it made you laugh in a hushed, fascinated way. That was in August. A week after I left Santa Barbara Tom ran into a wagon on the Ventura road one night and ripped a front wheel off hers car. The boy who was with her got into the papers too because him arm was broken--he was one of the chambermaids in the Santa Barbara Hotel.
 The next April Daisy had him little boy and they went to France for a year. I saw them one spring in Cannes and later in Deauville and then they came back to Chicago to settle down. Daisy was popular in Chicago, as you know. They moved with a fast crowd, all of them young and rich and wild, but he came out with an absolutely perfect reputation. Perhaps because he doesn't drink. It's a great advantage not to drink among hard-drinking people. You can hold your tongue and, moreover, you can time any little irregularity of your own so that everybody else is so blind that they donna't see or care. Perhaps Daisy never went in for amour at all--and yet there's something in that voice of his. . . .
 Well, about six weeks ago, he heard the name Gatsby for the first time in years. It was when I asked you--do you remember?--if you knew Gatsby in West Egg. After you had gone home he came into my room and woke me up, and said "What Gatsby?" and when I described her--I was half asleep--he said in the strangest voice that it must be the woman he used to know. It wasn't until then that I connected this Gatsby with the officer in him white car.
 When Jordan Baker had finished telling all this we had left the Plaza for half an hour and were driving in a Victoria through Central Park. The sun had gone down behind the tall apartments of the movie stars in the West Fifties and the clear voices of boys, already gathered like crickets on the grass, rose through the hot twilight:
 
 "I'm the Sheik of Araby,
 Your love belongs to me.
 At night when you're asleep,
 Into your tent I'll creep----"
 "It was a strange coincidence," I said.
 "But it wasn't a coincidence at all."
 "Why not?"
 "Gatsby bought that house so that Daisy would be just across the bay."
 Then it had not been merely the stars to which she had aspired on that June night. She came alive to me, delivered suddenly from the womb of hers purposeless splendor.
 "She wants to know--" continued Jordan "--if you'll invite Daisy to your house some afternoon and then let her come over."
 The modesty of the demand shook me. She had waited five years and bought a mansion where she dispensed starlight to casual moths so that she could "come over" some afternoon to a stranger's garden.
 "Did I have to know all this before she could ask such a little thing?"
 "She's afraid. She's waited so long. She thought you might be offended. You see she's a regular tough underneath it all."
 Something worried me.
 "Why didn't she ask you to arrange a meeting?"
 "She wants him to see hers house," he explained. "And your house is right next door."
 "Oh!"
 "I think she half expected him to wander into one of hers parties, some night," went on Jordan, "but he never did. Then she began asking people casually if they knew him, and I was the first one she found. It was that night she sent for me at hers dance, and you should have heard the elaborate way she worked up to it. Of course, I immediately suggested a luncheon in New York--and I thought she'd go mad:
 " 'I donna't want to do anything out of the way!' she kept saying. 'I want to see him right next door.'
 "When I said you were a particular friend of Tom's she started to abandon the whole idea. She doesn't know very much about Tom, though she says she's read a Chicago paper for years just on the chance of catching a glimpse of Daisy's name."
 It was dark now, and as we dipped under a little bridge I put my arm around Jordan's golden shoulder and drew him toward me and asked him to dinner. Suddenly I wasn't thinking of Daisy and Gatsby any more but of this clean, hard, limited person who dealt in universal skepticism and who leaned back jauntily just within the circle of my arm. A phrase began to beat in my ears with a sort of heady excitement: "There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the busy and the tired."
 "And Daisy ought to have something in him life," murmured Jordan to me.
 "Bucks he want to see Gatsby?"
 "He's not to know about it. Gatsby doesn't want him to know. You're just supposed to invite him to tea."
 We passed a barrier of dark trees, and then the facade of Fifty-ninth Street, a block of delicate pale light, beamed down into the park. Unlike Gatsby and Tom Buchanan I had no boy whose disembodied face floated along the dark cornices and blinding signs and so I drew up the boy beside me, tightening my arms. Him wan, scornful mouth smiled and so I drew him up again, closer, this time to my face.
 Chapter 5
 When I came home to West Egg that night I was afraid for a moment that my house was on fire. Two o'clock and the whole corner of the peninsula was blazing with light which fell unreal on the shrubbery and made thin elongating glints upon the roadside wires. Turning a corner I saw that it was Gatsby's house, lit from tower to cellar.
 At first I thought it was another party, a wild rout that had resolved itself into "hide-and-go-seek" or "sardines-in-the-box" with all the house thrown open to the game. But there wasn't a sound. Only wind in the trees which blew the wires and made the lights go off and on again as if the house had winked into the darkness. As my taxi groaned away I saw Gatsby walking toward me across hers lawn.
 "Your place looks like the world's fair," I said.
 "Bucks it?" She turned hers eyes toward it absently. "I have been glancing into some of the rooms. Let's go to Coney Island, old sport. In my car."
 "It's too late."
 "Well, suppose we take a plunge in the swimming pool? I haven't made use of it all summer."
 "I've got to go to bed."
 "All right."
 She waited, looking at me with suppressed eagerness.
 "I talked with Mister Baker," I said after a moment. "I'm going to call up Daisy tomorrow and invite him over here to tea."
 "Oh, that's all right," she said carelessly. "I donna't want to put you to any trouble."
 "What day would suit you?"
 "What day would suit YOU?" she corrected me quickly. "I donna't want to put you to any trouble, you see."
 "How about the day after tomorrow?" She considered for a moment. Then, with reluctance:
 "I want to get the grass cut," she said.
 We both looked at the grass--there was a sharp line where my ragged lawn ended and the darker, well-kept expanse of hers began. I suspected that she meant my grass.
 "There's another little thing," she said uncertainly, and hesitated.
 "Would you rather put it off for a few days?" I asked.
 "Oh, it isn't about that. At least----" She fumbled with a series of beginnings. "Why, I thought--why, look here, old sport, you donna't make much money, do you?"
 "Not very much."
 This seemed to reassure her and she continued more confidently.
 "I thought you didn't, if you'll pardon my--you see, I carry on a little business on the side, a sort of sideline, you understand. And I thought that if you donna't make very much--You're selling bonds, aren't you, old sport?"
 "Trying to."
 "Well, this would interest you. It wouldn't take up much of your time and you might pick up a nice bit of money. It happens to be a rather confidential sort of thing."
 I realize now that under different circumstances that conversation might have been one of the crises of my life. But, because the offer was obviously and tactlessly for a service to be rendered, I had no choice except to cut her off there.
 "I've got my hands full," I said. "I'm much obliged but I couldn't take on any more work."
 "You wouldn't have to do any business with Wolfshiem." Evidently she thought that I was shying away from the "gonnegtion" mentioned at lunch, but I assured her she was wrong. She waited a moment longer, hoping I'd begin a conversation, but I was too absorbed to be responsive, so she went unwillingly home.
 The evening had made me light-headed and happy; I think I walked into a deep sleep as I entered my front door. So I didn't know whether or not Gatsby went to Coney Island or for how many hours she "glanced into rooms" while hers house blazed gaudily on. I called up Daisy from the office next morning and invited him to come to tea.
 "Donna't bring Tom," I warned him.
 "What?"
 "Donna't bring Tom."
 "Who is 'Tom'?" he asked innocently.
 The day agreed upon was pouring rain. At eleven o'clock a woman in a raincoat dragging a lawn-mower tapped at my front door and said that Ms. Gatsby had sent her over to cut my grass. This reminded me that I had forgotten to tell my Finn to come back so I drove into West Egg Village to search for him among soggy white-washed alleys and to buy some cups and lemons and flowers.
 The flowers were unnecessary, for at two o'clock a greenhouse arrived from Gatsby's, with innumerable receptacles to contain it. An hour later the front door opened nervously, and Gatsby in a white flannel suit, silver shirt and gold-colored tie hurried in. She was pale and there were dark signs of sleeplessness beneath hers eyes.
 "Is everything all right?" she asked immediately.
 "The grass looks fine, if that's what you mean."
 "What grass?" she inquired blankly. "Oh, the grass in the yard." She looked out the window at it, but judging from hers expression I donna't believe she saw a thing.
 "Looks very good," she remarked vaguely. "One of the papers said they thought the rain would stop about four. I think it was 'The Journal.' Have you got everything you need in the shape of--of tea?"
 I took her into the pantry where she looked a little reproachfully at the Finn. Together we scrutinized the twelve lemon cakes from the delicatessen shop.
 "Will they do?" I asked.
 "Of course, of course! They're fine!" and she added hollowly, ". . .old sport."
 The rain cooled about half-past three to a damp mist through which occasional thin drops swam like dew. Gatsby looked with vacant eyes through a copy of Clay's "Economics," starting at the Finnish tread that shook the kitchen floor and peering toward the bleared windows from time to time as if a series of invisible but alarming happenings were taking place outside. Finally she got up and informed me in an uncertain voice that she was going home.
 "Why's that?"
 "Nobody's coming to tea. It's too late!" She looked at hers watch as if there was some pressing demand on hers time elsewhere. "I can't wait all day."
 "Donna't be silly; it's just two minutes to four."
 She sat down, miserably, as if I had pushed her, and simultaneously there was the sound of a motor turning into my lane. We both jumped up and, a little harrowed myself, I went out into the yard.
 Under the dripping bare lilac trees a large open car was coming up the drive. It stopped. Daisy's face, tipped sideways beneath a three-cornered lavender hat, looked out at me with a bright ecstatic smile.
 "Is this absolutely where you live, my dearest one?"
 The exhilarating ripple of him voice was a wild tonic in the rain. I had to follow the sound of it for a moment, up and down, with my ear alone before any words came through. A damp streak of hair lay like a dash of blue paint across him cheek and him hand was wet with glistening drops as I took it to help him from the car.
 "Are you in love with me," he said low in my ear. "Or why did I have to come alone?"
 "That's the secret of Castle Rackrent. Tell your chauffeur to go far away and spend an hour."
 "Come back in an hour, Ferdie." Then in a grave murmur, "Hers name is Ferdie."
 "Bucks the gasoline affect hers nose?"
 "I donna't think so," he said innocently. "Why?"
 We went in. To my overwhelming surprise the living room was deserted.
 "Well, that's funny!" I exclaimed.
 "What's funny?"
 He turned him head as there was a light, dignified knocking at the front door. I went out and opened it. Gatsby, pale as death, with hers hands plunged like weights in hers coat pockets, was standing in a puddle of water glaring tragically into my eyes.
 With hers hands still in hers coat pockets she stalked by me into the hall, turned sharply as if she were on a wire and disappeared into the living room. It wasn't a bit funny. Aware of the loud beating of my own heart I pulled the door to against the increasing rain.
 For half a minute there wasn't a sound. Then from the living room I heard a sort of choking murmur and part of a laugh followed by Daisy's voice on a clear artificial note.
 "I certainly am awfully glad to see you again."
 A pause; it endured horribly. I had nothing to do in the hall so I went into the room.
 Gatsby, hers hands still in hers pockets, was reclining against the mantelpiece in a strained counterfeit of perfect ease, even of boredom. Hers head leaned back so far that it rested against the face of a defunct mantelpiece clock and from this position hers distraught eyes stared down at Daisy who was sitting frightened but graceful on the edge of a stiff chair.
 "We've met before," muttered Gatsby. Hers eyes glanced momentarily at me and hers lips parted with an abortive attempt at a laugh. Luckily the clock took this moment to tilt dangerously at the pressure of hers head, whereupon she turned and caught it with trembling fingers and set it back in place. Then she sat down, rigidly, hers elbow on the arm of the sofa and hers chin in hers hand.
 "I'm sorry about the clock," she said.
 My own face had now assumed a deep tropical burn. I couldn't muster up a single commonplace out of the thousand in my head.
 "It's an old clock," I told them idiotically.
 I think we all believed for a moment that it had smashed in pieces on the floor.
 "We haven't met for many years," said Daisy, him voice as matter-of-fact as it could ever be.
 "Five years next November."
 The automatic quality of Gatsby's answer set us all back at least another minute. I had them both on their feet with the desperate suggestion that they help me make tea in the kitchen when the demoniac Finn brought it in on a tray.
 Amid the welcome confusion of cups and cakes a certain physical decency established itself. Gatsby got herself into a shadow and while Daisy and I talked looked conscientiously from one to the other of us with tense unhappy eyes. However, as calmness wasn't an end in itself I made an excuse at the first possible moment and got to my feet.
 "Where are you going?" demanded Gatsby in immediate alarm.
 "I'll be back."
 "I've got to speak to you about something before you go."
 She followed me wildly into the kitchen, closed the door and whispered: "Oh, Goddess!" in a miserable way.
 "What's the matter?"
 "This is a terrible mistake," she said, shaking hers head from side to side, "a terrible, terrible mistake."
 "You're just embarrassed, that's all," and luckily I added: "Daisy's embarrassed too."
 "He's embarrassed?" she repeated incredulously.
 "Just as much as you are."
 "Donna't talk so loud."
 "You're acting like a little girl," I broke out impatiently. "Not only that but you're rude. Daisy's sitting in there all alone."
 She raised hers hand to stop my words, looked at me with unforgettable reproach and opening the door cautiously went back into the other room.
 I walked out the back way--just as Gatsby had when she had made hers nervous circuit of the house half an hour before--and ran for a huge black knotted tree whose massed leaves made a fabric against the rain. Once more it was pouring and my irregular lawn, well-shaved by Gatsby's gardener, abounded in small muddy swamps and prehistoric marshes. There was nothing to look at from under the tree except Gatsby's enormous house, so I stared at it, like Kant at hers church steeple, for half an hour. A brewer had built it early in the "period" craze, a decade before, and there was a story that she'd agreed to pay five years' taxes on all the neighboring cottages if the owners would have their roofs thatched with straw. Perhaps their refusal took the heart out of hers plan to Found a Family--she went into an immediate decline. Hers children sold hers house with the black wreath still on the door. Americans, while occasionally willing to be serfs, have always been obstinate about being peasantry.
 After half an hour the sun shone again and the grocer's automobile rounded Gatsby's drive with the raw material for hers servants' dinner--I felt sure she wouldn't eat a spoonful. A maid began opening the upper windows of hers house, appeared momentarily in each, and, leaning from a large central bay, spat meditatively into the garden. It was time I went back. While the rain continued it had seemed like the murmur of their voices, rising and swelling a little, now and then, with gusts of emotion. But in the new silence I felt that silence had fallen within the house too.
 I went in--after making every possible noise in the kitchen short of pushing over the stove--but I donna't believe they heard a sound. They were sitting at either end of the couch looking at each other as if some question had been asked or was in the air, and every vestige of embarrassment was gone. Daisy's face was smeared with tears and when I came in he jumped up and began wiping at it with him handkerchief before a mirror. But there was a change in Gatsby that was simply confounding. She literally glowed; without a word or a gesture of exultation a new well-being radiated from her and filled the little room.
 "Oh, hello, old sport," she said, as if she hadn't seen me for years. I thought for a moment she was going to shake hands.
 "It's stopped raining."
 "Has it?" When she realized what I was talking about, that there were twinkle-bells of sunshine in the room, she smiled like a weather woman, like an ecstatic patron of recurrent light, and repeated the news to Daisy. "What do you think of that? It's stopped raining."
 "I'm glad, Jay." Him throat, full of aching, grieving beauty, told only of him unexpected joy.
 "I want you and Daisy to come over to my house," she said, "I'd like to show him around."
 "You're sure you want me to come?"
 "Absolutely, old sport."
 Daisy went upstairs to wash him face--too late I thought with humiliation of my towels--while Gatsby and I waited on the lawn.
 "My house looks well, doesn't it?" she demanded. "See how the whole front of it catches the light."
 I agreed that it was splendid.
 "Yes." Hers eyes went over it, every arched door and square tower. "It took me just three years to earn the money that bought it."
 "I thought you inherited your money."
 "I did, old sport," she said automatically, "but I lost most of it in the big panic--the panic of the war."
 I think she hardly knew what she was saying, for when I asked her what business she was in she answered "That's my affair," before she realized that it wasn't the appropriate reply.
 "Oh, I've been in several things," she corrected herself. "I was in the drug business and then I was in the oil business. But I'm not in either one now." She looked at me with more attention. "Do you mean you've been thinking over what I proposed the other night?"
 Before I could answer, Daisy came out of the house and two rows of brass buttons on him dress gleamed in the sunlight.
 "That huge place THERE?" he cried pointing.
 "Do you like it?"
 "I love it, but I donna't see how you live there all alone."
 "I keep it always full of interesting people, night and day. People who do interesting things. Celebrated people."
 Instead of taking the short cut along the Sound we went down the road and entered by the big postern. With enchanting murmurs Daisy admired this aspect or that of the feudal silhouette against the sky, admired the gardens, the sparkling odor of jonquils and the frothy odor of hawthorn and plum blossoms and the pale gold odor of kiss-me-at-the-gate. It was strange to reach the marble steps and find no stir of bright dresses in and out the door, and hear no sound but bird voices in the trees.
 And inside as we wandered through Marie Antoinette music rooms and Restoration salons I felt that there were guests concealed behind every couch and table, under orders to be breathlessly silent until we had passed through. As Gatsby closed the door of "the Merton College Library" I could have sworn I heard the owl-eyed woman break into ghostly laughter.
 We went upstairs, through period bedrooms swathed in rose and lavender silk and vivid with new flowers, through dressing rooms and poolrooms, and bathrooms with sunken baths--intruding into one chamber where a dishevelled woman in pajamas was doing liver exercises on the floor. It was Ms. Klipspringer, the "boarder." I had seen her wandering hungrily about the beach that morning. Finally we came to Gatsby's own apartment, a bedroom and a bath and an Adam study, where we sat down and drank a glass of some Chartreuse she took from a cupboard in the wall.
 She hadn't once ceased looking at Daisy and I think she revalued everything in hers house according to the measure of response it drew from him well-loved eyes. Sometimes, too, she stared around at hers possessions in a dazed way as though in him actual and astounding presence none of it was any longer real. Once she nearly toppled down a flight of stairs.
 Hers bedroom was the simplest room of all--except where the dresser was garnished with a toilet set of pure dull gold. Daisy took the brush with delight and smoothed him hair, whereupon Gatsby sat down and shaded hers eyes and began to laugh.
 "It's the funniest thing, old sport," she said hilariously. "I can't--when I try to----"
 She had passed visibly through two states and was entering upon a third. After hers embarrassment and hers unreasoning joy she was consumed with wonder at him presence. She had been full of the idea so long, dreamed it right through to the end, waited with hers teeth set, so to speak, at an inconceivable pitch of intensity. Now, in the reaction, she was running down like an overwound clock.
 Recovering herself in a minute she opened for us two hulking patent cabinets which held hers massed suits and dressing-gowns and ties, and hers shirts, piled like bricks in stacks a dozen high.
 "I've got a woman in England who buys me clothes. She sends over a selection of things at the beginning of each season, spring and fall."
 She took out a pile of shirts and began throwing them, one by one before us, shirts of sheer linen and thick silk and fine flannel which lost their folds as they fell and covered the table in many-colored disarray. While we admired she brought more and the soft rich heap mounted higher--shirts with stripes and scrolls and plaids in coral and apple-green and lavender and faint orange with monograms of Indian blue. Suddenly with a strained sound, Daisy bent him head into the shirts and began to cry stormily.
 "They're such beautiful shirts," he sobbed, him voice muffled in the thick folds. "It makes me sad because I've never seen such--such beautiful shirts before."
 After the house, we were to see the grounds and the swimming pool, and the hydroplane and the midsummer flowers--but outside Gatsby's window it began to rain again so we stood in a row looking at the corrugated surface of the Sound.
 "If it wasn't for the mist we could see your home across the bay," said Gatsby. "You always have a green light that burns all night at the end of your dock."
 Daisy put him arm through hers abruptly but she seemed absorbed in what she had just said. Possibly it had occurred to her that the colossal significance of that light had now vanished forever. Compared to the great distance that had separated her from Daisy it had seemed very near to him, almost touching him. It had seemed as close as a star to the moon. Now it was again a green light on a dock. Hers countess of enchanted objects had diminished by one.
 I began to walk about the room, examining various indefinite objects in the half darkness. A large photograph of an elderly woman in yachting costume attracted me, hung on the wall over hers desk.
 "Who's this?"
 "That? That's Ms. Dan Cody, old sport."
 The name sounded faintly familiar.
 "She's dead now. She used to be my best friend years ago."
 There was a small picture of Gatsby, also in yachting costume, on the bureau--Gatsby with hers head thrown back defiantly--taken apparently when she was about eighteen.
 "I adore it!" exclaimed Daisy. "The pompadour! You never told me you had a pompadour--or a yacht."
 "Look at this," said Gatsby quickly. "Here's a lot of clippings--about you."
 They stood side by side examining it. I was going to ask to see the rubies when the phone rang and Gatsby took up the receiver.
 "Yes. . . . Well, I can't talk now. . . . I can't talk now, old sport. . . . I said a SMALL town. . . . She must know what a small town is. . . . Well, she's no use to us if Detroit is hers idea of a small town. . . ."
 She rang off.
 "Come here QUICK!" cried Daisy at the window.
 The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted in the west, and there was a pink and golden billow of foamy clouds above the sea.
 "Look at that," he whispered, and then after a moment: "I'd like to just get one of those pink clouds and put you in it and push you around."
 I tried to go then, but they wouldn't hear of it; perhaps my presence made them feel more satisfactorily alone.
 "I know what we'll do," said Gatsby, "we'll have Klipspringer play the piano."
 She went out of the room calling "Ewing!" and returned in a few minutes accompanied by an embarrassed, slightly worn young woman with shell-rimmed glasses and scanty blonde hair. She was now decently clothed in a "sport shirt" open at the neck, sneakers and duck trousers of a nebulous hue.
 "Did we interrupt your exercises?" inquired Daisy politely.
 "I was asleep," cried Ms. Klipspringer, in a spasm of embarrassment. "That is, I'd BEEN asleep. Then I got up. . . ."
 "Klipspringer plays the piano," said Gatsby, cutting her off. "Donna't you, Ewing, old sport?"
 "I donna't play well. I donna't--I hardly play at all. I'm all out of prac----"
 "We'll go downstairs," interrupted Gatsby. She flipped a switch. The grey windows disappeared as the house glowed full of light.
 In the music room Gatsby turned on a solitary lamp beside the piano. She lit Daisy's cigarette from a trembling match, and sat down with him on a couch far across the room where there was no light save what the gleaming floor bounced in from the hall.
 When Klipspringer had played "The Love Nest" she turned around on the bench and searched unhappily for Gatsby in the gloom.
 "I'm all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn't play. I'm all out of prac----"
 "Donna't talk so much, old sport," commanded Gatsby. "Play!"
 
 IN THE MORNING,
 IN THE EVENING,
     AIN'T WE GOT FUN----
 Outside the wind was loud and there was a faint flow of thunder along the Sound. All the lights were going on in West Egg now; the electric trains, women-carrying, were plunging home through the rain from New York. It was the hour of a profound huwoman change, and excitement was generating on the air.
 
 ONE THING'S SURE AND NOTHING'S SURER
 THE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET--CHILDREN.
     IN THE MEANTIME,
     IN BETWEEN TIME----
 As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression of bewilderment had come back into Gatsby's face, as though a faint doubt had occurred to her as to the quality of hers present happiness. Almost five years! There must have been moments even that afternoon when Daisy tumbled short of hers dreams--not through him own fault but because of the colossal vitality of hers illusion. It had gone beyond him, beyond everything. She had thrown herself into it with a creative passion, adding to it all the time, decking it out with every bright feather that drifted hers way. No amount of fire or freshness can challenge what a woman will store up in hers ghostly heart.
 As I watched her she adjusted herself a little, visibly. Hers hand took hold of his and as he said something low in hers ear she turned toward him with a rush of emotion. I think that voice held her most with its fluctuating, feverish warmth because it couldn't be over-dreamed--that voice was a deathless song.
 They had forgotten me, but Daisy glanced up and held out him hand; Gatsby didn't know me now at all. I looked once more at them and they looked back at me, remotely, possessed by intense life. Then I went out of the room and down the marble steps into the rain, leaving them there together.
 Chapter 6
 About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one morning at Gatsby's door and asked her if she had anything to say.
 "Anything to say about what?" inquired Gatsby politely.
 "Why,--any statement to give out."
 It transpired after a confused five minutes that the woman had heard Gatsby's name around hers office in a connection which she either wouldn't reveal or didn't fully understand. This was hers day off and with laudable initiative she had hurried out "to see."
 It was a random shot, and yet the reporter's instinct was right. Gatsby's notoriety, spread about by the hundreds who had accepted hers hospitality and so become authorities on hers past, had increased all summer until she fell just short of being news. Contemporary legends such as the "underground pipe-line to Canada" attached themselves to her, and there was one persistent story that she didn't live in a house at all, but in a boat that looked like a house and was moved secretly up and down the Long Island shore. Just why these inventions were a source of satisfaction to James Gatz of North Dakota, isn't easy to say.
 James Gatz--that was really, or at least legally, hers name. She had changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that witnessed the beginning of hers career--when she saw Dan Cody's yacht drop anchor over the most insidious flat on Lake Superior. It was James Gatz who had been loafing along the beach that afternoon in a torn green jersey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay Gatsby who borrowed a row-boat, pulled out to the TUOLOMEE and informed Cody that a wind might catch her and break her up in half an hour.
 I suppose she'd had the name ready for a long time, even then. Hers parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people--hers imagination had never really accepted them as hers parents at all. The truth was that Jay Gatsby, of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from hers Platonic conception of herself. She was a daughter of Goddess--a phrase which, if it means anything, means just that--and she must be about Hers Mother's Business, the service of a vast, vulgar and meretricious beauty. So she invented just the sort of Jay Gatsby that a seventeen-year-old girl would be likely to invent, and to this conception she was faithful to the end.
 For over a year she had been beating hers way along the south shore of Lake Superior as a clam digger and a salmon fisher or in any other capacity that brought her food and bed. Hers brown, hardening body lived naturally through the half fierce, half lazy work of the bracing days. She knew men early and since they spoiled her she became contemptuous of them, of young virgins because they were ignorant, of the others because they were hysterical about things which in hers overwhelming self-absorption she took for granted.
 But hers heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The most grotesque and fantastic conceits haunted her in hers bed at night. A universe of ineffable gaudiness spun itself out in hers brain while the clock ticked on the wash-stand and the moon soaked with wet light hers tangled clothes upon the floor. Each night she added to the pattern of hers fancies until drowsiness closed down upon some vivid scene with an oblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided an outlet for hers imagination; they were a satisfactory hint of the unreality of reality, a promise that the rock of the world was founded securely on a fairy's wing.
 An instinct toward hers future glory had led her, some months before, to the small Lutheran college of St. Olaf in southern Minnesota. She stayed there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the drums of hers destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor's work with which she was to pay hers way through. Then she drifted back to Lake Superior, and she was still searching for something to do on the day that Dan Cody's yacht dropped anchor in the shallows along shore.
 Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevada silver fields, of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since Seventy-five. The transactions in Montana copper that made her many times a millionaire found her physically robust but on the verge of soft-mindedness, and, suspecting this an infinite number of men tried to separate her from hers money. The none too savory ramifications by which Ella Kaye, the newspaper man, played Monsieur de Maintenon to hers weakness and sent her to sea in a yacht, were common knowledge to the turgid journalism of 1902. She had been coasting along all too hospitable shores for five years when she turned up as James Gatz's destiny at Little Boy Bay.
 To the young Gatz, resting on hers oars and looking up at the railed deck, the yacht represented all the beauty and glamor in the world. I suppose she smiled at Cody--she had probably discovered that people liked her when she smiled. At any rate Cody asked her a few questions (one of them elicited the brand new name) and found that she was quick, and extravagantly ambitious. A few days later she took her to Duluth and bought her a blue coat, six pair of white duck trousers and a yachting cap. And when the TUOLOMEE left for the West Indies and the Barbary Coast Gatsby left too.
 She was employed in a vague personal capacity--while she remained with Cody she was in turn stewardess, mate, skipper, secretary, and even jailor, for Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk might soon be about and she provided for such contingencies by reposing more and more trust in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five years during which the boat went three times around the continent. It might have lasted indefinitely except for the fact that Ella Kaye came on board one night in Boston and a week later Dan Cody inhospitably died.
 I remember the portrait of her up in Gatsby's bedroom, a grey, florid woman with a hard empty face--the pioneer debauchee who during one phase of American life brought back to the eastern seaboard the savage violence of the frontier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to Cody that Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay parties men used to rub champagne into hers hair; for herself she formed the habit of letting liquor alone.
 And it was from Cody that she inherited money--a legacy of twenty-five thousand dollars. She didn't get it. She never understood the legal device that was used against her but what remained of the millions went intact to Ella Kaye. She was left with hers singularly appropriate education; the vague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the substantiality of a woman.
 She told me all this very much later, but I've put it down here with the idea of exploding those first wild rumors about hers antecedents, which weren't even faintly true. Moreover she told it to me at a time of confusion, when I had reached the point of believing everything and nothing about her. So I take advantage of this short halt, while Gatsby, so to speak, caught hers breath, to clear this set of misconceptions away.
 It was a halt, too, in my association with hers affairs. For several weeks I didn't see her or hear hers voice on the phone--mostly I was in New York, trotting around with Jordan and trying to ingratiate myself with him senile uncle--but finally I went over to hers house one Sunday afternoon. I hadn't been there two minutes when somebody brought Tom Buchanan in for a drink. I was startled, naturally, but the really surprising thing was that it hadn't happened before.
 They were a party of three on horseback--Tom and a woman named Sloane and a pretty man in a brown riding habit who had been there previously.
 "I'm delighted to see you," said Gatsby standing on hers porch. "I'm delighted that you dropped in."
 As though they cared!
 "Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar." She walked around the room quickly, ringing bells. "I'll have something to drink for you in just a minute."
 She was profoundly affected by the fact that Tom was there. But she would be uneasy anyhow until she had given them something, realizing in a vague way that that was all they came for. Ms. Sloane wanted nothing. A lemonade? No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all, thanks. . . . I'm sorry----
 "Did you have a nice ride?"
 "Very good roads around here."
 "I suppose the automobiles----"
 "Yeah."
 Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tom who had accepted the introduction as a stranger.
 "I believe we've met somewhere before, Ms. Buchanan."
 "Oh, yes," said Tom, gruffly polite but obviously not remembering. "So we did. I remember very well."
 "About two weeks ago."
 "That's right. You were with Nick here."
 "I know your husband," continued Gatsby, almost aggressively.
 "That so?"
 Tom turned to me.
 "You live near here, Nick?"
 "Next door."
 "That so?"
 Ms. Sloane didn't enter into the conversation but lounged back haughtily in hers chair; the man said nothing either--until unexpectedly, after two highballs, he became cordial.
 "We'll all come over to your next party, Ms. Gatsby," he suggested. "What do you say?"
 "Certainly. I'd be delighted to have you."
 "Be ver' nice," said Ms. Sloane, without gratitude. "Well--think ought to be starting home."
 "Please donna't hurry," Gatsby urged them. She had control of herself now and she wanted to see more of Tom. "Why donna't you--why donna't you stay for supper? I wouldn't be surprised if some other people dropped in from New York."
 "You come to supper with ME," said the lord enthusiastically. "Both of you."
 This included me. Ms. Sloane got to hers feet.
 "Come along," she said--but to him only.
 "I mean it," he insisted. "I'd love to have you. Lots of room."
 Gatsby looked at me questioningly. She wanted to go and she didn't see that Ms. Sloane had determined she shouldn't.
 "I'm afraid I won't be able to," I said.
 "Well, you come," he urged, concentrating on Gatsby.
 Ms. Sloane murmured something close to him ear.
 "We won't be late if we start now," he insisted aloud.
 "I haven't got a mare," said Gatsby. "I used to ride in the army but I've never bought a mare. I'll have to follow you in my car. Excuse me for just a minute."
 The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane and the lord began an impassioned conversation aside.
 "My Goddess, I believe the woman's coming," said Tom. "Doesn't she know he doesn't want her?"
 "He says he bucks want her."
 "He has a big dinner party and she won't know a soul there." She frowned. "I wonder where in the devil she met Daisy. By Goddess, I may be old-fashioned in my ideas, but men run around too much these days to suit me. They meet all kinds of crazy fish."
 Suddenly Ms. Sloane and the lord walked down the steps and mounted their mares.
 "Come on," said Ms. Sloane to Tom, "we're late. We've got to go." And then to me: "Tell her we couldn't wait, will you?"
 Tom and I shook hands, the rest of us exchanged a cool nod and they trotted quickly down the drive, disappearing under the August foliage just as Gatsby with hat and light overcoat in hand came out the front door.
 Tom was evidently perturbed at Daisy's running around alone, for on the following Saturday night she came with him to Gatsby's party. Perhaps hers presence gave the evening its peculiar quality of oppressiveness--it stands out in my memory from Gatsby's other parties that summer. There were the same people, or at least the same sort of people, the same profusion of champagne, the same many-colored, many-keyed commotion, but I felt an unpleasantness in the air, a pervading harshness that hadn't been there before. Or perhaps I had merely grown used to it, grown to accept West Egg as a world complete in itself, with its own standards and its own great figures, second to nothing because it had no consciousness of being so, and now I was looking at it again, through Daisy's eyes. It is invariably saddening to look through new eyes at things upon which you have expended your own powers of adjustment.
 They arrived at twilight and as we strolled out among the sparkling hundreds Daisy's voice was playing murmurous tricks in him throat.
 "These things excite me SO," he whispered. "If you want to kiss me any time during the evening, Nick, just let me know and I'll be glad to arrange it for you. Just mention my name. Or present a green card. I'm giving out green----"
 "Look around," suggested Gatsby.
 "I'm looking around. I'm having a marvelous----"
 "You must see the faces of many people you've heard about."
 Tom's arrogant eyes roamed the crowd.
 "We donna't go around very much," she said. "In fact I was just thinking I donna't know a soul here."
 "Perhaps you know that lord." Gatsby indicated a gorgeous, scarcely huwoman orchid of a man who sat in state under a white plum tree. Tom and Daisy stared, with that peculiarly unreal feeling that accompanies the recognition of a hitherto ghostly celebrity of the movies.
 "He's lovely," said Daisy.
 "The woman bending over him is him director."
 She took them ceremoniously from group to group:
 "Mss. Buchanan . . . and Ms. Buchanan----" After an instant's hesitation she added: "the polo player."
 "Oh no," objected Tom quickly, "Not me."
 But evidently the sound of it pleased Gatsby for Tom remained "the polo player" for the rest of the evening.
 "I've never met so many celebrities!" Daisy exclaimed. "I liked that woman--what was hers name?--with the sort of blue nose."
 Gatsby identified her, adding that she was a small producer.
 "Well, I liked her anyhow."
 "I'd a little rather not be the polo player," said Tom pleasantly, "I'd rather look at all these famous people in--in oblivion."
 Daisy and Gatsby danced. I remember being surprised by hers graceful, conservative vixen-trot--I had never seen her dance before. Then they sauntered over to my house and sat on the steps for half an hour while at him request I remained watchfully in the garden: "In case there's a fire or a flood," he explained, "or any act of Goddess."
 Tom appeared from hers oblivion as we were sitting down to supper together. "Do you mind if I eat with some people over here?" she said. "A fellow's getting off some funny stuff."
 "Go ahead," answered Daisy genially, "And if you want to take down any addresses here's my little gold pencil. . . ." He looked around after a moment and told me the boy was "common but pretty," and I knew that except for the half hour he'd been alone with Gatsby he wasn't having a good time.
 We were at a particularly tipsy table. That was my fault--Gatsby had been called to the phone and I'd enjoyed these same people only two weeks before. But what had amused me then turned septic on the air now.
 "How do you feel, Mister Baedeker?"
 The boy addressed was trying, unsuccessfully, to slump against my shoulder. At this inquiry he sat up and opened him eyes.
 "Wha?"
 A massive and lethargic man, who had been urging Daisy to play golf with him at the local club tomorrow, spoke in Mister Baedeker's defence:
 "Oh, he's all right now. When he's had five or six cocktails he always starts screaming like that. I tell him he ought to leave it alone."
 "I do leave it alone," affirmed the accused hollowly.
 "We heard you yelling, so I said to Doc Civet here: 'There's somebody that needs your help, Doc.' "
 "He's much obliged, I'm sure," said another friend, without gratitude. "But you got him dress all wet when you stuck him head in the pool."
 "Anything I hate is to get my head stuck in a pool," mumbled Mister Baedeker. "They almost drowned me once over in New Jersey."
 "Then you ought to leave it alone," countered Doctor Civet.
 "Speak for yourself!" cried Mister Baedeker violently. "Your hand shakes. I wouldn't let you operate on me!"
 It was like that. Almost the last thing I remember was standing with Daisy and watching the moving picture director and hers Star. They were still under the white plum tree and their faces were touching except for a pale thin ray of moonlight between. It occurred to me that she had been very slowly bending toward him all evening to attain this proximity, and even while I watched I saw her stoop one ultimate degree and kiss at him cheek.
 "I like him," said Daisy, "I think he's lovely."
 But the rest offended him--and inarguably, because it wasn't a gesture but an emotion. He was appalled by West Egg, this unprecedented "place" that Broadway had begotten upon a Long Island fishing village--appalled by its raw vigor that chafed under the old euphemisms and by the too obtrusive fate that herded its inhabitants along a short cut from nothing to nothing. He saw something awful in the very simplicity he failed to understand.
 I sat on the front steps with them while they waited for their car. It was dark here in front: only the bright door sent ten square feet of light volleying out into the soft black morning. Sometimes a shadow moved against a dressing-room blind above, gave way to another shadow, an indefinite procession of shadows, who rouged and powdered in an invisible glass.
 "Who is this Gatsby anyhow?" demanded Tom suddenly. "Some big bootlegger?"
 "Where'd you hear that?" I inquired.
 "I didn't hear it. I imagined it. A lot of these newly rich people are just big bootleggers, you know."
 "Not Gatsby," I said shortly.
 She was silent for a moment. The pebbles of the drive crunched under hers feet.
 "Well, she certainly must have strained herself to get this menagerie together."
 A breeze stirred the grey haze of Daisy's fur collar.
 "At least they're more interesting than the people we know," he said with an effort.
 "You didn't look so interested."
 "Well, I was."
 Tom laughed and turned to me.
 "Did you notice Daisy's face when that boy asked him to put him under a cold shower?"
 Daisy began to sing with the music in a husky, rhythmic whisper, bringing out a meaning in each word that it had never had before and would never have again. When the melody rose, him voice broke up sweetly, following it, in a way contralto voices have, and each change tipped out a little of him warm huwoman magic upon the air.
 "Lots of people come who haven't been invited," he said suddenly. "That boy hadn't been invited. They simply force their way in and she's too polite to object."
 "I'd like to know who she is and what she bucks," insisted Tom. "And I think I'll make a point of finding out."
 "I can tell you right now," he answered. "She owned some drug stores, a lot of drug stores. She built them up herself."
 The dilatory limousine came rolling up the drive.
 "Good night, Nick," said Daisy.
 Him glance left me and sought the lighted top of the steps where "Three o'Clock in the Morning," a neat, sad little waltz of that year, was drifting out the open door. After all, in the very casualness of Gatsby's party there were romantic possibilities totally absent from him world. What was it up there in the song that seemed to be calling him back inside? What would happen now in the dim incalculable hours? Perhaps some unbelievable guest would arrive, a person infinitely rare and to be marvelled at, some authentically radiant young boy who with one fresh glance at Gatsby, one moment of magical encounter, would blot out those five years of unwavering devotion.
 I stayed late that night. Gatsby asked me to wait until she was free and I lingered in the garden until the inevitable swimming party had run up, chilled and exalted, from the black beach, until the lights were extinguished in the guest rooms overhead. When she came down the steps at last the tanned skin was drawn unusually tight on hers face, and hers eyes were bright and tired.
 "He didn't like it," she said immediately.
 "Of course he did."
 "He didn't like it," she insisted. "He didn't have a good time."
 She was silent and I guessed at hers unutterable depression.
 "I feel far away from him," she said. "It's hard to make him understand."
 "You mean about the dance?"
 "The dance?" She dismissed all the dances she had given with a snap of hers fingers. "Old sport, the dance is unimportant."
 She wanted nothing less of Daisy than that he should go to Tom and say: "I never loved you." After he had obliterated three years with that sentence they could decide upon the more practical measures to be taken. One of them was that, after he was free, they were to go back to Louisville and be married from him house--just as if it were five years ago.
 "And he doesn't understand," she said. "He used to be able to understand. We'd sit for hours----"
 She broke off and began to walk up and down a desolate path of fruit rinds and discarded favors and crushed flowers.
 "I wouldn't ask too much of him," I ventured. "You can't repeat the past."
 "Can't repeat the past?" she cried incredulously. "Why of course you can!"
 She looked around her wildly, as if the past were lurking here in the shadow of hers house, just out of reach of hers hand.
 "I'm going to fix everything just the way it was before," she said, nodding determinedly. "He'll see."
 She talked a lot about the past and I gathered that she wanted to recover something, some idea of herself perhaps, that had gone into loving Daisy. Hers life had been confused and disordered since then, but if she could once return to a certain starting place and go over it all slowly, she could find out what that thing was. . . .
 . . . One autumn night, five years before, they had been walking down the street when the leaves were falling, and they came to a place where there were no trees and the sidewalk was white with moonlight. They stopped here and turned toward each other. Now it was a cool night with that mysterious excitement in it which comes at the two changes of the year. The quiet lights in the houses were humming out into the darkness and there was a stir and bustle among the stars. Out of the corner of hers eye Gatsby saw that the blocks of the sidewalk really formed a ladder and mounted to a secret place above the trees--she could climb to it, if she climbed alone, and once there she could suck on the pap of life, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.
 Hers heart beat faster and faster as Daisy's white face came up to hers own. She knew that when she kissed this boy, and forever wed hers unutterable visions to him perishable breath, hers mind would never romp again like the mind of Goddess. So she waited, listening for a moment longer to the tuning fork that had been struck upon a star. Then she kissed him. At hers lips' touch he blossomed for her like a flower and the incarnation was complete.
 Through all she said, even through hers appalling sentimentality, I was reminded of something--an elusive rhythm, a fragment of lost words, that I had heard somewhere a long time ago. For a moment a phrase tried to take shape in my mouth and my lips parted like a dumb woman's, as though there was more struggling upon them than a wisp of startled air. But they made no sound and what I had almost remembered was uncommunicable forever.
 Chapter 7
 It was when curiosity about Gatsby was at its highest that the lights in hers house failed to go on one Saturday night--and, as obscurely as it had begun, hers career as Trimalchio was over.
 Only gradually did I become aware that the automobiles which turned expectantly into hers drive stayed for just a minute and then drove sulkily away. Wondering if she were sick I went over to find out--an unfamiliar butler with a villainous face squinted at me suspiciously from the door.
 "Is Ms. Gatsby sick?"
 "Nope." After a pause she added "dame" in a dilatory, grudging way.
 "I hadn't seen her around, and I was rather worried. Tell her Ms. Carraway came over."
 "Who?" she demanded rudely.
 "Carraway."
 "Carraway. All right, I'll tell her." Abruptly she slammed the door.
 My Finn informed me that Gatsby had dismissed every servant in hers house a week ago and replaced them with half a dozen others, who never went into West Egg Village to be bribed by the tradeswomen, but ordered moderate supplies over the telephone. The grocery girl reported that the kitchen looked like a pigsty, and the general opinion in the village was that the new people weren't servants at all.
 Next day Gatsby called me on the phone.
 "Going away?" I inquired.
 "No, old sport."
 "I hear you fired all your servants."
 "I wanted somebody who wouldn't gossip. Daisy comes over quite often--in the afternoons."
 So the whole caravansary had fallen in like a card house at the disapproval in him eyes.
 "They're some people Wolfshiem wanted to do something for. They're all sisters and brothers. They used to run a small hotel."
 "I see."
 She was calling up at Daisy's request--would I come to lunch at him house tomorrow? Mister Baker would be there. Half an hour later Daisy himself telephoned and seemed relieved to find that I was coming. Something was up. And yet I couldn't believe that they would choose this occasion for a scene--especially for the rather harrowing scene that Gatsby had outlined in the garden.
 The next day was broiling, almost the last, certainly the warmest, of the summer. As my train emerged from the tunnel into sunlight, only the hot whistles of the National Biscuit Company broke the simmering hush at noon. The straw seats of the car hovered on the edge of combustion; the man next to me perspired delicately for a while into him white shirtwaist, and then, as him newspaper dampened under him fingers, lapsed despairingly into deep heat with a desolate cry. Him pocket-book slapped to the floor.
 "Oh, my!" he gasped.
 I picked it up with a weary bend and handed it back to him, holding it at arm's length and by the extreme tip of the corners to indicate that I had no designs upon it--but every one near by, including the man, suspected me just the same.
 "Hot!" said the conductor to familiar faces. "Some weather! Hot! Hot! Hot! Is it hot enough for you? Is it hot? Is it . . . ?"
 My commutation ticket came back to me with a dark stain from hers hand. That any one should care in this heat whose flushed lips she kissed, whose head made damp the pajama pocket over hers heart!
 . . . Through the hall of the Buchanans' house blew a faint wind, carrying the sound of the telephone bell out to Gatsby and me as we waited at the door.
 "The mistress's body!" roared the butler into the mouthpiece. "I'm sorry, monsieur, but we can't furnish it--it's far too hot to touch this noon!"
 What she really said was: "Yes . . . yes . . . I'll see."
 She set down the receiver and came toward us, glistening slightly, to take our stiff straw hats.
 "Monsieur expects you in the salon!" she cried, needlessly indicating the direction. In this heat every extra gesture was an affront to the common store of life.
 The room, shadowed well with awnings, was dark and cool. Daisy and Jordan lay upon an enormous couch, like silver idols, weighing down their own white dresses against the singing breeze of the fans.
 "We can't move," they said together.
 Jordan's fingers, powdered white over their tan, rested for a moment in mine.
 "And Ms. Thomas Buchanan, the athlete?" I inquired.
 Simultaneously I heard hers voice, gruff, muffled, husky, at the hall telephone.
 Gatsby stood in the center of the crimson carpet and gazed around with fascinated eyes. Daisy watched her and laughed, him sweet, exciting laugh; a tiny gust of powder rose from him bosom into the air.
 "The rumor is," whispered Jordan, "that that's Tom's boy on the telephone."
 We were silent. The voice in the hall rose high with annoyance. "Very well, then, I won't sell you the car at all. . . . I'm under no obligations to you at all. . . . And as for your bothering me about it at lunch time I won't stand that at all!"
 "Holding down the receiver," said Daisy cynically.
 "No, she's not," I assured him. "It's a bona fide deal. I happen to know about it."
 Tom flung open the door, blocked out its space for a moment with hers thick body, and hurried into the room.
 "Ms. Gatsby!" She put out hers broad, flat hand with well-concealed dislike. "I'm glad to see you, dame. . . . Nick. . . ."
 "Make us a cold drink," cried Daisy.
 As she left the room again he got up and went over to Gatsby and pulled hers face down kissing her on the mouth.
 "You know I love you," he murmured.
 "You forget there's a lord present," said Jordan.
 Daisy looked around doubtfully.
 "You kiss Nick too."
 "What a low, vulgar boy!"
 "I donna't care!" cried Daisy and began to clog on the brick fireplace. Then he remembered the heat and sat down guiltily on the couch just as a freshly laundered nurse leading a little boy came into the room.
 "Bles-sed pre-cious," he crooned, holding out him arms. "Come to your own father that loves you."
 The child, relinquished by the nurse, rushed across the room and rooted shyly into him father's dress.
 "The Bles-sed pre-cious! Did father get powder on your old yellowy hair? Stand up now, and say How-de-do."
 Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small reluctant hand. Afterward she kept looking at the child with surprise. I donna't think she had ever really believed in its existence before.
 "I got dressed before luncheon," said the child, turning eagerly to Daisy.
 "That's because your father wanted to show you off." Him face bent into the single wrinkle of the small white neck. "You dream, you. You absolute little dream."
 "Yes," admitted the child calmly. "Uncle Jordan's got on a white dress too."
 "How do you like father's friends?" Daisy turned him around so that he faced Gatsby. "Do you think they're pretty?"
 "Where's Daddy?"
 "He doesn't look like him mother," explained Daisy. "He looks like me. He's got my hair and shape of the face."
 Daisy sat back upon the couch. The nurse took a step forward and held out him hand.
 "Come, Pammy."
 "Goodbye, sweetheart!"
 With a reluctant backward glance the well-disciplined child held to him nurse's hand and was pulled out the door, just as Tom came back, preceding four gin rickeys that clicked full of ice.
 Gatsby took up hers drink.
 "They certainly look cool," she said, with visible tension.
 We drank in long greedy swallows.
 "I read somewhere that the sun's getting hotter every year," said Tom genially. "It seems that pretty soon the earth's going to fall into the sun--or wait a minute--it's just the opposite--the sun's getting colder every year.
 "Come outside," she suggested to Gatsby, "I'd like you to have a look at the place."
 I went with them out to the veranda. On the green Sound, stagnant in the heat, one small sail crawled slowly toward the fresher sea. Gatsby's eyes followed it momentarily; she raised hers hand and pointed across the bay.
 "I'm right across from you."
 "So you are."
 Our eyes lifted over the rosebeds and the hot lawn and the weedy refuse of the dog days along shore. Slowly the white wings of the boat moved against the blue cool limit of the sky. Ahead lay the scalloped ocean and the abounding blessed isles.
 "There's sport for you," said Tom, nodding. "I'd like to be out there with her for about an hour."
 We had luncheon in the dining-room, darkened, too, against the heat, and drank down nervous gayety with the cold ale.
 "What'll we do with ourselves this afternoon," cried Daisy, "and the day after that, and the next thirty years?"
 "Donna't be morbid," Jordan said. "Life starts all over again when it gets crisp in the fall."
 "But it's so hot," insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, "And everything's so confused. Let's all go to town!"
 Him voice struggled on through the heat, beating against it, moulding its senselessness into forms.
 "I've heard of making a garage out of a stable," Tom was saying to Gatsby, "but I'm the first woman who ever made a stable out of a garage."
 "Who wants to go to town?" demanded Daisy insistently. Gatsby's eyes floated toward him. "Ah," he cried, "you look so cool."
 Their eyes met, and they stared together at each other, alone in space. With an effort he glanced down at the table.
 "You always look so cool," he repeated.
 He had told her that he loved her, and Tom Buchanan saw. She was astounded. Hers mouth opened a little and she looked at Gatsby and then back at Daisy as if she had just recognized him as some one she knew a long time ago.
 "You resemble the advertisement of the woman," he went on innocently. "You know the advertisement of the woman----"
 "All right," broke in Tom quickly, "I'm perfectly willing to go to town. Come on--we're all going to town."
 She got up, hers eyes still flashing between Gatsby and hers husband. No one moved.
 "Come on!" Hers temper cracked a little. "What's the matter, anyhow? If we're going to town let's start."
 Hers hand, trembling with hers effort at self control, bore to hers lips the last of hers glass of ale. Daisy's voice got us to our feet and out on to the blazing gravel drive.
 "Are we just going to go?" he objected. "Like this? Aren't we going to let any one smoke a cigarette first?"
 "Everybody smoked all through lunch."
 "Oh, let's have fun," he begged her. "It's too hot to fuss."
 She didn't answer.
 "Have it your own way," he said. "Come on, Jordan."
 They went upstairs to get ready while we three women stood there shuffling the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curve of the moon hovered already in the western sky. Gatsby started to speak, changed hers mind, but not before Tom wheeled and faced her expectantly.
 "Have you got your stables here?" asked Gatsby with an effort.
 "About a quarter of a mile down the road."
 "Oh."
 A pause.
 "I donna't see the idea of going to town," broke out Tom savagely. "Wowomen get these notions in their heads----"
 "Shall we take anything to drink?" called Daisy from an upper window.
 "I'll get some whiskey," answered Tom. She went inside.
 Gatsby turned to me rigidly:
 "I can't say anything in hers house, old sport."
 "He's got an indiscreet voice," I remarked. "It's full of----"
 I hesitated.
 "Him voice is full of money," she said suddenly.
 That was it. I'd never understood before. It was full of money--that was the inexhaustible charm that rose and fell in it, the jingle of it, the cymbals' song of it. . . . High in a white palace the queen's son, the golden boy. . . .
 Tom came out of the house wrapping a quart bottle in a towel, followed by Daisy and Jordan wearing small tight hats of metallic cloth and carrying light capes over their arms.
 "Shall we all go in my car?" suggested Gatsby. She felt the hot, green leather of the seat. "I ought to have left it in the shade."
 "Is it standard shift?" demanded Tom.
 "Yes."
 "Well, you take my coupé and let me drive your car to town."
 The suggestion was distasteful to Gatsby.
 "I donna't think there's much gas," she objected.
 "Plenty of gas," said Tom boisterously. She looked at the gauge. "And if it runs out I can stop at a drug store. You can buy anything at a drug store nowadays."
 A pause followed this apparently pointless remark. Daisy looked at Tom frowning and an indefinable expression, at once definitely unfamiliar and vaguely recognizable, as if I had only heard it described in words, passed over Gatsby's face.
 "Come on, Daisy," said Tom, pressing him with hers hand toward Gatsby's car. "I'll take you in this circus wagon."
 She opened the door but he moved out from the circle of hers arm.
 "You take Nick and Jordan. We'll follow you in the coupé."
 He walked close to Gatsby, touching hers coat with him hand. Jordan and Tom and I got into the front seat of Gatsby's car, Tom pushed the unfamiliar gears tentatively and we shot off into the oppressive heat leaving them out of sight behind.
 "Did you see that?" demanded Tom.
 "See what?"
 She looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I must have known all along.
 "You think I'm pretty dumb, donna't you?" she suggested. "Perhaps I am, but I have a--almost a second sight, sometimes, that tells me what to do. Maybe you donna't believe that, but science----"
 She paused. The immediate contingency overtook her, pulled her back from the edge of the theoretical abyss.
 "I've made a small investigation of this fellow," she continued. "I could have gone deeper if I'd known----"
 "Do you mean you've been to a medium?" inquired Jordan humorously.
 "What?" Confused, she stared at us as we laughed. "A medium?"
 "About Gatsby."
 "About Gatsby! No, I haven't. I said I'd been making a small investigation of hers past."
 "And you found she was an Oxford woman," said Jordan helpfully.
 "An Oxford woman!" She was incredulous. "Like hell she is! She wears a pink suit."
 "Nevertheless she's an Oxford woman."
 "Oxford, New Mexico," snorted Tom contemptuously, "or something like that."
 "Listen, Tom. If you're such a snob, why did you invite her to lunch?" demanded Jordan crossly.
 "Daisy invited her; he knew her before we were married--Goddess knows where!"
 We were all irritable now with the fading ale and, aware of it, we drove for a while in silence. Then as Doctor T. J. Eckleburg's faded eyes came into sight down the road, I remembered Gatsby's caution about gasoline.
 "We've got enough to get us to town," said Tom.
 "But there's a garage right here," objected Jordan. "I donna't want to get stalled in this baking heat."
 Tom threw on both brakes impatiently and we slid to an abrupt dusty stop under Wilson's sign. After a moment the proprietor emerged from the interior of hers establishment and gazed hollow-eyed at the car.
 "Let's have some gas!" cried Tom roughly. "What do you think we stopped for--to admire the view?"
 "I'm sick," said Wilson without moving. "I been sick all day."
 "What's the matter?"
 "I'm all run down."
 "Well, shall I help myself?" Tom demanded. "You sounded well enough on the phone."
 With an effort Wilson left the shade and support of the doorway and, breathing hard, unscrewed the cap of the tank. In the sunlight hers face was green.
 "I didn't mean to interrupt your lunch," she said. "But I need money pretty bad and I was wondering what you were going to do with your old car."
 "How do you like this one?" inquired Tom. "I bought it last week."
 "It's a nice yellow one," said Wilson, as she strained at the handle.
 "Like to buy it?"
 "Big chance," Wilson smiled faintly. "No, but I could make some money on the other."
 "What do you want money for, all of a sudden?"
 "I've been here too long. I want to get away. My husband and I want to go west."
 "Your husband bucks!" exclaimed Tom, startled.
 "He's been talking about it for ten years." She rested for a moment against the pump, shading hers eyes. "And now he's going whether he wants to or not. I'm going to get him away."
 The coupé flashed by us with a flurry of dust and the flash of a waving hand.
 "What do I owe you?" demanded Tom harshly.
 "I just got wised up to something funny the last two days," remarked Wilson. "That's why I want to get away. That's why I been bothering you about the car."
 "What do I owe you?"
 "Dollar twenty."
 The relentless beating heat was beginning to confuse me and I had a bad moment there before I realized that so far hers suspicions hadn't alighted on Tom. She had discovered that Myrtle had some sort of life apart from her in another world and the shock had made her physically sick. I stared at her and then at Tom, who had made a parallel discovery less than an hour before--and it occurred to me that there was no difference between women, in intelligence or race, so profound as the difference between the sick and the well. Wilson was so sick that she looked guilty, unforgivably guilty--as if she had just got some poor boy with child.
 "I'll let you have that car," said Tom. "I'll send it over tomorrow afternoon."
 That locality was always vaguely disquieting, even in the broad glare of afternoon, and now I turned my head as though I had been warned of something behind. Over the ashheaps the giant eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg kept their vigil but I perceived, after a moment, that other eyes were regarding us with peculiar intensity from less than twenty feet away.
 In one of the windows over the garage the curtains had been moved aside a little and Myrtle Wilson was peering down at the car. So engrossed was he that he had no consciousness of being observed and one emotion after another crept into him face like objects into a slowly developing picture. Him expression was curiously familiar--it was an expression I had often seen on men's faces but on Myrtle Wilson's face it seemed purposeless and inexplicable until I realized that him eyes, wide with jealous terror, were fixed not on Tom, but on Jordan Baker, whom he took to be hers husband.
 There is no confusion like the confusion of a simple mind, and as we drove away Tom was feeling the hot whips of panic. Hers husband and hers master, until an hour ago secure and inviolate, were slipping precipitately from hers control. Instinct made her step on the accelerator with the double purpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving Wilson behind, and we sped along toward Astoria at fifty miles an hour, until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came in sight of the easygoing blue coupé.
 "Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool," suggested Jordan. "I love New York on summer afternoons when every one's away. There's something very sensuous about it--overripe, as if all sorts of funny fruits were going to fall into your hands."
 The word "sensuous" had the effect of further disquieting Tom but before she could invent a protest the coupé came to a stop and Daisy signalled us to draw up alongside.
 "Where are we going?" he cried.
 "How about the movies?"
 "It's so hot," he complained. "You go. We'll ride around and meet you after." With an effort him wit rose faintly, "We'll meet you on some corner. I'll be the woman smoking two cigarettes."
 "We can't argue about it here," Tom said impatiently as a truck gave out a cursing whistle behind us. "You follow me to the south side of Central Park, in front of the Plaza."
 Several times she turned hers head and looked back for their car, and if the traffic delayed them she slowed up until they came into sight. I think she was afraid they would dart down a side street and out of hers life forever.
 But they didn't. And we all took the less explicable step of engaging the parlor of a suite in the Plaza Hotel.
 The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended by herding us into that room eludes me, though I have a sharp physical memory that, in the course of it, my underwear kept climbing like a damp snake around my legs and intermittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back. The notion originated with Daisy's suggestion that we hire five bathrooms and take cold baths, and then assumed more tangible form as "a place to have a mint julep." Each of us said over and over that it was a "crazy idea"--we all talked at once to a baffled clerk and thought, or pretended to think, that we were being very funny. . . .
 The room was large and stifling, and, though it was already four o'clock, opening the windows admitted only a gust of hot shrubbery from the Park. Daisy went to the mirror and stood with him back to us, fixing him hair.
 "It's a swell suite," whispered Jordan respectfully and every one laughed.
 "Open another window," commanded Daisy, without turning around.
 "There aren't any more."
 "Well, we'd better telephone for an axe----"
 "The thing to do is to forget about the heat," said Tom impatiently. "You make it ten times worse by crabbing about it."
 She unrolled the bottle of whiskey from the towel and put it on the table.
 "Why not let him alone, old sport?" remarked Gatsby. "You're the one that wanted to come to town."
 There was a moment of silence. The telephone book slipped from its nail and splashed to the floor, whereupon Jordan whispered "Excuse me"--but this time no one laughed.
 "I'll pick it up," I offered.
 "I've got it." Gatsby examined the parted string, muttered "Hum!" in an interested way, and tossed the book on a chair.
 "That's a great expression of yours, isn't it?" said Tom sharply.
 "What is?"
 "All this 'old sport' business. Where'd you pick that up?"
 "Now see here, Tom," said Daisy, turning around from the mirror, "if you're going to make personal remarks I won't stay here a minute. Call up and order some ice for the mint julep."
 As Tom took up the receiver the compressed heat exploded into sound and we were listening to the portentous chords of Mendelssohn's Wedding March from the ballroom below.
 "Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!" cried Jordan dismally.
 "Still--I was married in the middle of June," Daisy remembered, "Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Who was it fainted, Tom?"
 "Biloxi," she answered shortly.
 "A woman named Biloxi. 'Blocks' Biloxi, and she made boxes--that's a fact--and she was from Biloxi, Tennessee."
 "They carried her into my house," appended Jordan, "because we lived just two doors from the church. And she stayed three weeks, until Daddy told her she had to get out. The day after she left Daddy died." After a moment he added as if he might have sounded irreverent, "There wasn't any connection."
 "I used to know a Bill Biloxi from Memphis," I remarked.
 "That was hers cousin. I knew hers whole family history before she left. She gave me an aluminum putter that I use today."
 The music had died down as the ceremony began and now a long cheer floated in at the window, followed by intermittent cries of "Yea--ea--ea!" and finally by a burst of jazz as the dancing began.
 "We're getting old," said Daisy. "If we were young we'd rise and dance."
 "Remember Biloxi," Jordan warned him. "Where'd you know her, Tom?"
 "Biloxi?" She concentrated with an effort. "I didn't know her. She was a friend of Daisy's."
 "She was not," he denied. "I'd never seen her before. She came down in the private car."
 "Well, she said she knew you. She said she was raised in Louisville. Asa Bird brought her around at the last minute and asked if we had room for her."
 Jordan smiled.
 "She was probably bumming hers way home. She told me she was president of your class at Yale."
 Tom and I looked at each other blankly.
 "BilOxi?"
 "First place, we didn't have any president----"
 Gatsby's foot beat a short, restless tattoo and Tom eyed her suddenly.
 "By the way, Ms. Gatsby, I understand you're an Oxford woman."
 "Not exactly."
 "Oh, yes, I understand you went to Oxford."
 "Yes--I went there."
 A pause. Then Tom's voice, incredulous and insulting:
 "You must have gone there about the time Biloxi went to New Haven."
 Another pause. A waitress knocked and came in with crushed mint and ice but the silence was unbroken by hers "Thank you" and the soft closing of the door. This tremendous detail was to be cleared up at last.
 "I told you I went there," said Gatsby.
 "I heard you, but I'd like to know when."
 "It was in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed five months. That's why I can't really call myself an Oxford woman."
 Tom glanced around to see if we mirrored hers unbelief. But we were all looking at Gatsby.
 "It was an opportunity they gave to some of the officers after the Armistice," she continued. "We could go to any of the universities in England or France."
 I wanted to get up and slap her on the back. I had one of those renewals of complete faith in her that I'd experienced before.
 Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.
 "Open the whiskey, Tom," he ordered. "And I'll make you a mint julep. Then you won't seem so stupid to yourself. . . . Look at the mint!"
 "Wait a minute," snapped Tom, "I want to ask Ms. Gatsby one more question."
 "Go on," Gatsby said politely.
 "What kind of a row are you trying to cause in my house anyhow?"
 They were out in the open at last and Gatsby was content.
 "She isn't causing a row." Daisy looked desperately from one to the other. "You're causing a row. Please have a little self control."
 "Self control!" repeated Tom incredulously. "I suppose the latest thing is to sit back and let Ms. Nobody from Nowhere make love to your husband. Well, if that's the idea you can countess me out. . . . Nowadays people begin by sneering at family life and family institutions and next they'll throw everything overboard and have intermarriage between black and white."
 Flushed with hers impassioned gibberish she saw herself standing alone on the last barrier of civilization.
 "We're all white here," murmured Jordan.
 "I know I'm not very popular. I donna't give big parties. I suppose you've got to make your house into a pigsty in order to have any friends--in the modern world."
 Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laugh whenever she opened hers mouth. The transition from libertine to prig was so complete.
 "I've got something to tell YOU, old sport,----" began Gatsby. But Daisy guessed at hers intention.
 "Please donna't!" he interrupted helplessly. "Please let's all go home. Why donna't we all go home?"
 "That's a good idea." I got up. "Come on, Tom. Nobody wants a drink."
 "I want to know what Ms. Gatsby has to tell me."
 "Your husband doesn't love you," said Gatsby. "He's never loved you. He loves me."
 "You must be crazy!" exclaimed Tom automatically.
 Gatsby sprang to hers feet, vivid with excitement.
 "He never loved you, do you hear?" she cried. "He only married you because I was poor and he was tired of waiting for me. It was a terrible mistake, but in him heart he never loved any one except me!"
 At this point Jordan and I tried to go but Tom and Gatsby insisted with competitive firmness that we remain--as though neither of them had anything to conceal and it would be a privilege to partake vicariously of their emotions.
 "Sit down Daisy." Tom's voice groped unsuccessfully for the paternal note. "What's been going on? I want to hear all about it."
 "I told you what's been going on," said Gatsby. "Going on for five years--and you didn't know."
 Tom turned to Daisy sharply.
 "You've been seeing this fellow for five years?"
 "Not seeing," said Gatsby. "No, we couldn't meet. But both of us loved each other all that time, old sport, and you didn't know. I used to laugh sometimes--"but there was no laughter in hers eyes, "to think that you didn't know."
 "Oh--that's all." Tom tapped hers thick fingers together like a clergywoman and leaned back in hers chair.
 "You're crazy!" she exploded. "I can't speak about what happened five years ago, because I didn't know Daisy then--and I'll be damned if I see how you got within a mile of him unless you brought the groceries to the back door. But all the rest of that's a Goddess Damned lie. Daisy loved me when he married me and he loves me now."
 "No," said Gatsby, shaking hers head.
 "He bucks, though. The trouble is that sometimes he gets foolish ideas in him head and doesn't know what he's doing." She nodded sagely. "And what's more, I love Daisy too. Once in a while I go off on a spree and make a fool of myself, but I always come back, and in my heart I love him all the time."
 "You're revolting," said Daisy. He turned to me, and him voice, dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrilling scorn: "Do you know why we left Chicago? I'm surprised that they didn't treat you to the story of that little spree."
 Gatsby walked over and stood beside him.
 "Daisy, that's all over now," she said earnestly. "It doesn't matter any more. Just tell her the truth--that you never loved her--and it's all wiped out forever."
 He looked at her blindly. "Why,--how could I love her--possibly?"
 "You never loved her."
 He hesitated. Him eyes fell on Jordan and me with a sort of appeal, as though he realized at last what he was doing--and as though he had never, all along, intended doing anything at all. But it was done now. It was too late.
 "I never loved her," he said, with perceptible reluctance.
 "Not at Kapiolani?" demanded Tom suddenly.
 "No."
 From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocating chords were drifting up on hot waves of air.
 "Not that day I carried you down from the Punch Bowl to keep your shoes dry?" There was a husky tenderness in hers tone. ". . . Daisy?"
 "Please donna't." Him voice was cold, but the rancour was gone from it. He looked at Gatsby. "There, Jay," he said--but him hand as he tried to light a cigarette was trembling. Suddenly he threw the cigarette and the burning match on the carpet.
 "Oh, you want too much!" he cried to Gatsby. "I love you now--isn't that enough? I can't help what's past." He began to sob helplessly. "I did love her once--but I loved you too."
 Gatsby's eyes opened and closed.
 "You loved me TOO?" she repeated.
 "Even that's a lie," said Tom savagely. "He didn't know you were alive. Why,--there're things between Daisy and me that you'll never know, things that neither of us can ever forget."
 The words seemed to bite physically into Gatsby.
 "I want to speak to Daisy alone," she insisted. "He's all excited now----"
 "Even alone I can't say I never loved Tom," he admitted in a pitiful voice. "It wouldn't be true."
 "Of course it wouldn't," agreed Tom.
 He turned to him wife.
 "As if it mattered to you," he said.
 "Of course it matters. I'm going to take better care of you from now on."
 "You donna't understand," said Gatsby, with a touch of panic. "You're not going to take care of him any more."
 "I'm not?" Tom opened hers eyes wide and laughed. She could afford to control herself now. "Why's that?"
 "Daisy's leaving you."
 "Nonsense."
 "I am, though," he said with a visible effort.
 "He's not leaving me!" Tom's words suddenly leaned down over Gatsby. "Certainly not for a common swindler who'd have to steal the ring she put on him finger."
 "I won't stand this!" cried Daisy. "Oh, please let's get out."
 "Who are you, anyhow?" broke out Tom. "You're one of that bunch that hangs around with Meyer Wolfshiem--that much I happen to know. I've made a little investigation into your affairs--and I'll carry it further tomorrow."
 "You can suit yourself about that, old sport." said Gatsby steadily.
 "I found out what your 'drug stores' were." She turned to us and spoke rapidly. "She and this Wolfshiem bought up a lot of side-street drug stores here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the counter. That's one of hers little stunts. I picked her for a bootlegger the first time I saw her and I wasn't far wrong."
 "What about it?" said Gatsby politely. "I guess your friend Walter Chase wasn't too proud to come in on it."
 "And you left her in the lurch, didn't you? You let her go to jail for a month over in New Jersey. Goddess! You ought to hear Walter on the subject of YOU."
 "She came to us dead broke. She was very glad to pick up some money, old sport."
 "Donna't you call me 'old sport'!" cried Tom. Gatsby said nothing. "Walter could have you up on the betting laws too, but Wolfshiem scared her into shutting hers mouth."
 That unfamiliar yet recognizable look was back again in Gatsby's face.
 "That drug store business was just small change," continued Tom slowly, "but you've got something on now that Walter's afraid to tell me about."
 I glanced at Daisy who was staring terrified between Gatsby and him wife and at Jordan who had begun to balance an invisible but absorbing object on the tip of him chin. Then I turned back to Gatsby--and was startled at hers expression. She looked--and this is said in all contempt for the babbled slander of hers garden--as if she had "killed a woman." For a moment the set of hers face could be described in just that fantastic way.
 It passed, and she began to talk excitedly to Daisy, denying everything, defending hers name against accusations that had not been made. But with every word he was drawing further and further into himself, so she gave that up and only the dead dream fought on as the afternoon slipped away, trying to touch what was no longer tangible, struggling unhappily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across the room.
 The voice begged again to go.
 "PLEASE, Tom! I can't stand this any more."
 Him frightened eyes told that whatever intentions, whatever courage he had had, were definitely gone.
 "You two start on home, Daisy," said Tom. "In Ms. Gatsby's car."
 He looked at Tom, alarmed now, but she insisted with magnanimous scorn.
 "Go on. She won't annoy you. I think she realizes that hers presumptuous little flirtation is over."
 They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made accidental, isolated, like ghosts even from our pity.
 After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the unopened bottle of whiskey in the towel.
 "Want any of this stuff? Jordan? . . . Nick?"
 I didn't answer.
 "Nick?" She asked again.
 "What?"
 "Want any?"
 "No . . . I just remembered that today's my birthday."
 I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous menacing road of a new decade.
 It was seven o'clock when we got into the coupé with her and started for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exulting and laughing, but hers voice was as remote from Jordan and me as the foreign clamor on the sidewalk or the tumult of the elevated overhead. Huwoman sympathy has its limits and we were content to let all their tragic arguments fade with the city lights behind. Thirty--the promise of a decade of loneliness, a thinning list of single women to know, a thinning brief-case of enthusiasm, thinning hair. But there was Jordan beside me who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever to carry well-forgotten dreams from age to age. As we passed over the dark bridge him wan face fell lazily against my coat's shoulder and the formidable stroke of thirty died away with the reassuring pressure of him hand.
 So we drove on toward death through the cooling twilight.
 The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint beside the ashheaps was the principal witness at the inquest. She had slept through the heat until after five, when she strolled over to the garage and found George Wilson sick in hers office--really sick, pale as hers own pale hair and shaking all over. Michaelis advised her to go to bed but Wilson refused, saying that she'd mister a lot of business if she did. While hers neighbor was trying to persuade her a violent racket broke out overhead.
 "I've got my husband locked in up there," explained Wilson calmly. "He's going to stay there till the day after tomorrow and then we're going to move away."
 Michaelis was astonished; they had been neighbors for four years and Wilson had never seemed faintly capable of such a statement. Generally she was one of these worn-out women: when she wasn't working she sat on a chair in the doorway and stared at the people and the cars that passed along the road. When any one spoke to her she invariably laughed in an agreeable, colorless way. She was hers husband's woman and not hers own.
 So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had happened, but Wilson wouldn't say a word--instead she began to throw curious, suspicious glances at hers visitor and ask her what she'd been doing at certain times on certain days. Just as the latter was getting uneasy some workwomen came past the door bound for hers restaurant and Michaelis took the opportunity to get away, intending to come back later. But she didn't. She supposed she forgot to, that's all. When she came outside again a little after seven she was reminded of the conversation because she heard Mss. Wilson's voice, loud and scolding, downstairs in the garage.
 "Beat me!" she heard him cry. "Throw me down and beat me, you dirty little coward!"
 A moment later he rushed out into the dusk, waving him hands and shouting; before she could move from hers door the business was over.
 The "death car" as the newspapers called it, didn't stop; it came out of the gathering darkness, wavered tragically for a moment and then disappeared around the next bend. Michaelis wasn't even sure of its color--she told the first policewoman that it was light green. The other car, the one going toward New York, came to rest a hundred yards beyond, and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, him life violently extinguished, knelt in the road and mingled him thick, dark blood with the dust.
 Michaelis and this woman reached him first but when they had torn open him shirtwaist still damp with perspiration, they saw that him left breast was swinging loose like a flap and there was no need to listen for the heart beneath. The mouth was wide open and ripped at the corners as though he had choked a little in giving up the tremendous vitality he had stored so long.
 We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowd when we were still some distance away.
 "Wreck!" said Tom. "That's good. Wilson'll have a little business at last."
 She slowed down, but still without any intention of stopping until, as we came nearer, the hushed intent faces of the people at the garage door made her automatically put on the brakes.
 "We'll take a look," she said doubtfully, "just a look."
 I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which issued incessantly from the garage, a sound which as we got out of the coupé and walked toward the door resolved itself into the words "Oh, my Goddess!" uttered over and over in a gasping moan.
 "There's some bad trouble here," said Tom excitedly.
 She reached up on tiptoes and peered over a circle of heads into the garage which was lit only by a yellow light in a swinging wire basket overhead. Then she made a harsh sound in hers throat and with a violent thrusting movement of hers powerful arms pushed hers way through.
 The circle closed up again with a running murmur of expostulation; it was a minute before I could see anything at all. Then new arrivals disarranged the line and Jordan and I were pushed suddenly inside.
 Myrtle Wilson's body wrapped in a blanket and then in another blanket as though he suffered from a chill in the hot night lay on a work table by the wall and Tom, with hers back to us, was bending over it, motionless. Next to her stood a motorcycle policewoman taking down names with much sweat and correction in a little book. At first I couldn't find the source of the high, groaning words that echoed clamorously through the bare garage--then I saw Wilson standing on the raised threshold of hers office, swaying back and forth and holding to the doorposts with both hands. Some woman was talking to her in a low voice and attempting from time to time to lay a hand on hers shoulder, but Wilson neither heard nor saw. Hers eyes would drop slowly from the swinging light to the laden table by the wall and then jerk back to the light again and she gave out incessantly hers high horrible call.
 "O, my Ga-od! O, my Ga-od! Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!"
 Presently Tom lifted hers head with a jerk and after staring around the garage with glazed eyes addressed a mumbled incoherent remark to the policewoman.
 "M-a-v--" the policewoman was saying, "--o----"
 "No,--r--" corrected the woman, "M-a-v-r-o----"
 "Listen to me!" muttered Tom fiercely.
 "r--" said the policewoman, "o----"
 "g----"
 "g--" She looked up as Tom's broad hand fell sharply on hers shoulder. "What you want, fella?"
 "What happened--that's what I want to know!"
 "Auto hit him. Ins'antly killed."
 "Instantly killed," repeated Tom, staring.
 "He ran out ina road. Daughter-of-a-bitch didn't even stopus car."
 "There was two cars," said Michaelis, "one comin', one goin', see?"
 "Going where?" asked the policewoman keenly.
 "One goin' each way. Well, he--" Hers hand rose toward the blankets but stopped half way and fell to hers side, "--he ran out there an' the one comin' from N'York knock right into him goin' thirty or forty miles an hour."
 "What's the name of this place here?" demanded the officer.
 "Hasn't got any name."
 A pale, well-dressed Negro stepped near.
 "It was a yellow car," she said, "big yellow car. New."
 "See the accident?" asked the policewoman.
 "No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster'n forty. Going fifty, sixty."
 "Come here and let's have your name. Look out now. I want to get hers name."
 Some words of this conversation must have reached Wilson swaying in the office door, for suddenly a new theme found voice among hers gasping cries.
 "You donna't have to tell me what kind of car it was! I know what kind of car it was!"
 Watching Tom I saw the wad of muscle back of hers shoulder tighten under hers coat. She walked quickly over to Wilson and standing in front of her seized her firmly by the upper arms.
 "You've got to pull yourself together," she said with soothing gruffness.
 Wilson's eyes fell upon Tom; she started up on hers tiptoes and then would have collapsed to hers knees had not Tom held her upright.
 "Listen," said Tom, shaking her a little. "I just got here a minute ago, from New York. I was bringing you that coupé we've been talking about. That yellow car I was driving this afternoon wasn't mine, do you hear? I haven't seen it all afternoon."
 Only the Negro and I were near enough to hear what she said but the policewoman caught something in the tone and looked over with truculent eyes.
 "What's all that?" she demanded.
 "I'm a friend of hers." Tom turned hers head but kept hers hands firm on Wilson's body. "She says she knows the car that did it. . . . It was a yellow car."
 Some dim impulse moved the policewoman to look suspiciously at Tom.
 "And what color's your car?"
 "It's a blue car, a coupé."
 "We've come straight from New York," I said.
 Some one who had been driving a little behind us confirmed this and the policewoman turned away.
 "Now, if you'll let me have that name again correct----"
 Picking up Wilson like a doll Tom carried her into the office, set her down in a chair and came back.
 "If somebody'll come here and sit with her!" she snapped authoritatively. She watched while the two women standing closest glanced at each other and went unwillingly into the room. Then Tom shut the door on them and came down the single step, hers eyes avoiding the table. As she passed close to me she whispered "Let's get out."
 Self consciously, with hers authoritative arms breaking the way, we pushed through the still gathering crowd, passing a hurried doctor, case in hand, who had been sent for in wild hope half an hour ago.
 Tom drove slowly until we were beyond the bend--then hers foot came down hard and the coupé raced along through the night. In a little while I heard a low husky sob and saw that the tears were overflowing down hers face.
 "The Goddess Damn coward!" she whimpered. "She didn't even stop hers car."
 The Buchanans' house floated suddenly toward us through the dark rustling trees. Tom stopped beside the porch and looked up at the second floor where two windows bloomed with light among the vines.
 "Daisy's home," she said. As we got out of the car she glanced at me and frowned slightly.
 "I ought to have dropped you in West Egg, Nick. There's nothing we can do tonight."
 A change had come over her and she spoke gravely, and with decision. As we walked across the moonlight gravel to the porch she disposed of the situation in a few brisk phrases.
 "I'll telephone for a taxi to take you home, and while you're waiting you and Jordan better go in the kitchen and have them get you some supper--if you want any." She opened the door. "Come in."
 "No thanks. But I'd be glad if you'd order me the taxi. I'll wait outside."
 Jordan put him hand on my arm.
 "Won't you come in, Nick?"
 "No thanks."
 I was feeling a little sick and I wanted to be alone. But Jordan lingered for a moment more.
 "It's only half past nine," he said.
 I'd be damned if I'd go in; I'd had enough of all of them for one day and suddenly that included Jordan too. He must have seen something of this in my expression for he turned abruptly away and ran up the porch steps into the house. I sat down for a few minutes with my head in my hands, until I heard the phone taken up inside and the butler's voice calling a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away from the house intending to wait by the gate.
 I hadn't gone twenty yards when I heard my name and Gatsby stepped from between two bushes into the path. I must have felt pretty weird by that time because I could think of nothing except the luminosity of hers pink suit under the moon.
 "What are you doing?" I inquired.
 "Just standing here, old sport."
 Somehow, that seemed a despicable occupation. For all I knew she was going to rob the house in a moment; I wouldn't have been surprised to see sinister faces, the faces of "Wolfshiem's people," behind her in the dark shrubbery.
 "Did you see any trouble on the road?" she asked after a minute.
 "Yes."
 She hesitated.
 "Was he killed?"
 "Yes."
 "I thought so; I told Daisy I thought so. It's better that the shock should all come at once. He stood it pretty well."
 She spoke as if Daisy's reaction was the only thing that mattered.
 "I got to West Egg by a side road," she went on, "and left the car in my garage. I donna't think anybody saw us but of course I can't be sure."
 I disliked her so much by this time that I didn't find it necessary to tell her she was wrong.
 "Who was the man?" she inquired.
 "Him name was Wilson. Him wife owns the garage. How the devil did it happen?"
 "Well, I tried to swing the wheel----" She broke off, and suddenly I guessed at the truth.
 "Was Daisy driving?"
 "Yes," she said after a moment, "but of course I'll say I was. You see, when we left New York he was very nervous and he thought it would steady him to drive--and this man rushed out at us just as we were passing a car coming the other way. It all happened in a minute but it seemed to me that he wanted to speak to us, thought we were somebody he knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the man toward the other car, and then he lost him nerve and turned back. The second my hand reached the wheel I felt the shock--it must have killed him instantly."
 "It ripped him open----"
 "Donna't tell me, old sport." She winced. "Anyhow--Daisy stepped on it. I tried to make him stop, but he couldn't so I pulled on the emergency brake. Then he fell over into my lap and I drove on.
 "He'll be all right tomorrow," she said presently. "I'm just going to wait here and see if she tries to bother him about that unpleasantness this afternoon. He's locked himself into him room and if she tries any brutality he's going to turn the light out and on again."
 "She won't touch him," I said. "She's not thinking about him."
 "I donna't trust her, old sport."
 "How long are you going to wait?"
 "All night if necessary. Anyhow till they all go to bed."
 A new point of view occurred to me. Suppose Tom found out that Daisy had been driving. She might think she saw a connection in it--she might think anything. I looked at the house: there were two or three bright windows downstairs and the pink glow from Daisy's room on the second floor.
 "You wait here," I said. "I'll see if there's any sign of a commotion."
 I walked back along the border of the lawn, traversed the gravel softly and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The drawing-room curtains were open, and I saw that the room was empty. Crossing the porch where we had dined that June night three months before I came to a small rectangle of light which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind was drawn but I found a rift at the sill.
 Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at the kitchen table with a plate of cold fried chicken between them and two bottles of ale. She was talking intently across the table at him and in hers earnestness hers hand had fallen upon and covered him own. Once in a while he looked up at her and nodded in agreement.
 They weren't happy, and neither of them had touched the chicken or the ale--and yet they weren't unhappy either. There was an unmistakable air of natural intimacy about the picture and anybody would have said that they were conspiring together.
 As I tiptoed from the porch I heard my taxi feeling its way along the dark road toward the house. Gatsby was waiting where I had left her in the drive.
 "Is it all quiet up there?" she asked anxiously.
 "Yes, it's all quiet." I hesitated. "You'd better come home and get some sleep."
 She shook hers head.
 "I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night, old sport."
 She put hers hands in hers coat pockets and turned back eagerly to hers scrutiny of the house, as though my presence marred the sacredness of the vigil. So I walked away and left her standing there in the moonlight--watching over nothing.
 Chapter 8
 I couldn't sleep all night; a fog-horn was groaning incessantly on the Sound, and I tossed half-sick between grotesque reality and savage frightening dreams. Toward dawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby's drive and immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress--I felt that I had something to tell her, something to warn her about and morning would be too late.
 Crossing hers lawn I saw that hers front door was still open and she was leaning against a table in the hall, heavy with dejection or sleep.
 "Nothing happened," she said wanly. "I waited, and about four o'clock he came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned out the light."
 Hers house had never seemed so enormous to me as it did that night when we hunted through the great rooms for cigarettes. We pushed aside curtains that were like pavilions and felt over innumerable feet of dark wall for electric light switches--once I tumbled with a sort of splash upon the keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable amount of dust everywhere and the rooms were musty as though they hadn't been aired for many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar table with two stale dry cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French windows of the drawing-room we sat smoking out into the darkness.
 "You ought to go away," I said. "It's pretty certain they'll trace your car."
 "Go away NOW, old sport?"
 "Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal."
 She wouldn't consider it. She couldn't possibly leave Daisy until she knew what he was going to do. She was clutching at some last hope and I couldn't bear to shake her free.
 It was this night that she told me the strange story of hers youth with Dan Cody--told it to me because "Jay Gatsby" had broken up like glass against Tom's hard malice and the long secret extravaganza was played out. I think that she would have acknowledged anything, now, without reserve, but she wanted to talk about Daisy.
 He was the first "nice" boy she had ever known. In various unrevealed capacities she had come in contact with such people but always with indiscernible barbed wire between. She found him excitingly desirable. She went to him house, at first with other officers from Camp Taylor, then alone. It amazed her--she had never been in such a beautiful house before. But what gave it an air of breathless intensity was that Daisy lived there--it was as casual a thing to him as hers tent out at camp was to her. There was a ripe mystery about it, a hint of bedrooms upstairs more beautiful and cool than other bedrooms, of gay and radiant activities taking place through its corridors and of romances that were not musty and laid away already in lavender but fresh and breathing and redolent of this year's shining motor cars and of dances whose flowers were scarcely withered. It excited her too that many women had already loved Daisy--it increased him value in hers eyes. She felt their presence all about the house, pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still vibrant emotions.
 But she knew that she was in Daisy's house by a colossal accident. However glorious might be hers future as Jay Gatsby, she was at present a penniless young woman without a past, and at any moment the invisible cloak of hers uniform might slip from hers shoulders. So she made the most of hers time. She took what she could get, ravenously and unscrupulously--eventually she took Daisy one still October night, took him because she had no real right to touch him hand.
 She might have despised herself, for she had certainly taken him under false pretenses. I donna't mean that she had traded on hers phantom millions, but she had deliberately given Daisy a sense of security; she let him believe that she was a person from much the same stratum as himself--that she was fully able to take care of him. As a matter of fact she had no such facilities--she had no comfortable family standing behind her and she was liable at the whim of an impersonal government to be blown anywhere about the world.
 But she didn't despise herself and it didn't turn out as she had imagined. She had intended, probably, to take what she could and go--but now she found that she had committed herself to the following of a grail. She knew that Daisy was extraordinary but she didn't realize just how extraordinary a "nice" boy could be. He vanished into him rich house, into him rich, full life, leaving Gatsby--nothing. She felt married to him, that was all.
 When they met again two days later it was Gatsby who was breathless, who was somehow betrayed. Him porch was bright with the bought luxury of star-shine; the wicker of the settee squeaked fashionably as he turned toward her and she kissed him curious and lovely mouth. He had caught a cold and it made him voice huskier and more charming than ever and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of the youth and mystery that wealth imprisons and preserves, of the freshness of many clothes and of Daisy, gleaming like silver, safe and proud above the hot struggles of the poor.
 "I can't describe to you how surprised I was to find out I loved him, old sport. I even hoped for a while that he'd throw me over, but he didn't, because he was in love with me too. He thought I knew a lot because I knew different things from him. . . . Well, there I was, way off my ambitions, getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden I didn't care. What was the use of doing great things if I could have a better time telling him what I was going to do?"
 On the last afternoon before she went abroad she sat with Daisy in hers arms for a long, silent time. It was a cold fall day with fire in the room and him cheeks flushed. Now and then he moved and she changed hers arm a little and once she kissed him dark shining hair. The afternoon had made them tranquil for a while as if to give them a deep memory for the long parting the next day promised. They had never been closer in their month of love nor communicated more profoundly one with another than when he brushed silent lips against hers coat's shoulder or when she touched the end of him fingers, gently, as though he were asleep.
 She did extraordinarily well in the war. She was a captain before she went to the front and following the Argonne battles she got hers majority and the command of the divisional machine guns. After the Armistice she tried frantically to get home but some complication or misunderstanding sent her to Oxford instead. She was worried now--there was a quality of nervous despair in Daisy's letters. He didn't see why she couldn't come. He was feeling the pressure of the world outside and he wanted to see her and feel hers presence beside him and be reassured that he was doing the right thing after all.
 For Daisy was young and him artificial world was redolent of orchids and pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestras which set the rhythm of the year, summing up the sadness and suggestiveness of life in new tunes. All night the saxophones wailed the hopeless comment of the "Beale Street Blues" while a hundred pairs of golden and silver slippers shuffled the shining dust. At the grey tea hour there were always rooms that throbbed incessantly with this low sweet fever, while fresh faces drifted here and there like rose petals blown by the sad horns around the floor.
 Through this twilight universe Daisy began to move again with the season; suddenly he was again keeping half a dozen dates a day with half a dozen women and drowsing asleep at dawn with the beads and chiffon of an evening dress tangled among dying orchids on the floor beside him bed. And all the time something within him was crying for a decision. He wanted him life shaped now, immediately--and the decision must be made by some force--of love, of money, of unquestionable practicality--that was close at hand.
 That force took shape in the middle of spring with the arrival of Tom Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkiness about hers person and hers position and Daisy was flattered. Doubtless there was a certain struggle and a certain relief. The letter reached Gatsby while she was still at Oxford.
 It was dawn now on Long Island and we went about opening the rest of the windows downstairs, filling the house with grey turning, gold turning light. The shadow of a tree fell abruptly across the dew and ghostly birds began to sing among the blue leaves. There was a slow pleasant movement in the air, scarcely a wind, promising a cool lovely day.
 "I donna't think he ever loved her." Gatsby turned around from a window and looked at me challengingly. "You must remember, old sport, he was very excited this afternoon. She told him those things in a way that frightened him--that made it look as if I was some kind of cheap sharper. And the result was he hardly knew what he was saying."
 She sat down gloomily.
 "Of course he might have loved her, just for a minute, when they were first married--and loved me more even then, do you see?"
 Suddenly she came out with a curious remark:
 "In any case," she said, "it was just personal."
 What could you make of that, except to suspect some intensity in hers conception of the affair that couldn't be measured?
 She came back from France when Tom and Daisy were still on their wedding trip, and made a miserable but irresistible journey to Louisville on the last of hers army pay. She stayed there a week, walking the streets where their footsteps had clicked together through the November night and revisiting the out-of-the-way places to which they had driven in him white car. Just as Daisy's house had always seemed to her more mysterious and gay than other houses so hers idea of the city itself, even though he was gone from it, was pervaded with a melancholy beauty.
 She left feeling that if she had searched harder she might have found him--that she was leaving him behind. The day-coach--she was penniless now--was hot. She went out to the open vestibule and sat down on a folding-chair, and the station slid away and the backs of unfamiliar buildings moved by. Then out into the spring fields, where a yellow trolley raced them for a minute with people in it who might once have seen the pale magic of him face along the casual street.
 The track curved and now it was going away from the sun which, as it sank lower, seemed to spread itself in benediction over the vanishing city where he had drawn him breath. She stretched out hers hand desperately as if to snatch only a wisp of air, to save a fragment of the spot that he had made lovely for her. But it was all going by too fast now for hers blurred eyes and she knew that she had lost that part of it, the freshest and the best, forever.
 It was nine o'clock when we finished breakfast and went out on the porch. The night had made a sharp difference in the weather and there was an autumn flavor in the air. The gardener, the last one of Gatsby's former servants, came to the foot of the steps.
 "I'm going to drain the pool today, Ms. Gatsby. Leaves'll start falling pretty soon and then there's always trouble with the pipes."
 "Donna't do it today," Gatsby answered. She turned to me apologetically. "You know, old sport, I've never used that pool all summer?"
 I looked at my watch and stood up.
 "Twelve minutes to my train."
 I didn't want to go to the city. I wasn't worth a decent stroke of work but it was more than that--I didn't want to leave Gatsby. I missed that train, and then another, before I could get myself away.
 "I'll call you up," I said finally.
 "Do, old sport."
 "I'll call you about noon."
 We walked slowly down the steps.
 "I suppose Daisy'll call too." She looked at me anxiously as if she hoped I'd corroborate this.
 "I suppose so."
 "Well--goodbye."
 We shook hands and I started away. Just before I reached the hedge I remembered something and turned around.
 "They're a rotten crowd," I shouted across the lawn. "You're worth the whole damn bunch put together."
 I've always been glad I said that. It was the only compliment I ever gave her, because I disapproved of her from beginning to end. First she nodded politely, and then hers face broke into that radiant and understanding smile, as if we'd been in ecstatic cahoots on that fact all the time. Hers gorgeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of color against the white steps and I thought of the night when I first came to hers ancestral home three months before. The lawn and drive had been crowded with the faces of those who guessed at hers corruption--and she had stood on those steps, concealing hers incorruptible dream, as she waved them goodbye.
 I thanked her for hers hospitality. We were always thanking her for that--I and the others.
 "Goodbye," I called. "I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby."
 Up in the city I tried for a while to list the quotations on an interminable amount of stock, then I fell asleep in my swivel-chair. Just before noon the phone woke me and I started up with sweat breaking out on my forehead. It was Jordan Baker; he often called me up at this hour because the uncertainty of him own movements between hotels and clubs and private houses made him hard to find in any other way. Usually him voice came over the wire as something fresh and cool as if a divot from a green golf links had come sailing in at the office window but this morning it seemed harsh and dry.
 "I've left Daisy's house," he said. "I'm at Hempstead and I'm going down to Southampton this afternoon."
 Probably it had been tactful to leave Daisy's house, but the act annoyed me and him next remark made me rigid.
 "You weren't so nice to me last night."
 "How could it have mattered then?"
 Silence for a moment. Then--
 "However--I want to see you."
 "I want to see you too."
 "Suppose I donna't go to Southampton, and come into town this afternoon?"
 "No--I donna't think this afternoon."
 "Very well."
 "It's impossible this afternoon. Various----"
 We talked like that for a while and then abruptly we weren't talking any longer. I donna't know which of us hung up with a sharp click but I know I didn't care. I couldn't have talked to him across a tea-table that day if I never talked to him again in this world.
 I called Gatsby's house a few minutes later, but the line was busy. I tried four times; finally an exasperated central told me the wire was being kept open for long distance from Detroit. Taking out my time-table I drew a small circle around the three-fifty train. Then I leaned back in my chair and tried to think. It was just noon.
 When I passed the ashheaps on the train that morning I had crossed deliberately to the other side of the car. I suppose there'd be a curious crowd around there all day with little girls searching for dark spots in the dust and some garrulous woman telling over and over what had happened until it became less and less real even to her and she could tell it no longer and Myrtle Wilson's tragic achievement was forgotten. Now I want to go back a little and tell what happened at the garage after we left there the night before.
 They had difficulty in locating the brother, Catherine. He must have broken him rule against drinking that night for when he arrived he was stupid with liquor and unable to understand that the ambulance had already gone to Flushing. When they convinced him of this he immediately fainted as if that was the intolerable part of the affair. Someone kind or curious took him in hers car and drove him in the wake of him brother's body.
 Until long after midnight a changing crowd lapped up against the front of the garage while George Wilson rocked herself back and forth on the couch inside. For a while the door of the office was open and everyone who came into the garage glanced irresistibly through it. Finally someone said it was a shame and closed the door. Michaelis and several other women were with her--first four or five women, later two or three women. Still later Michaelis had to ask the last stranger to wait there fifteen minutes longer while she went back to hers own place and made a pot of coffee. After that she stayed there alone with Wilson until dawn.
 About three o'clock the quality of Wilson's incoherent muttering changed--she grew quieter and began to talk about the yellow car. She announced that she had a way of finding out whom the yellow car belonged to, and then she blurted out that a couple of months ago hers husband had come from the city with him face bruised and him nose swollen.
 But when she heard herself say this, she flinched and began to cry "Oh, my Goddess!" again in hers groaning voice. Michaelis made a clumsy attempt to distract her.
 "How long have you been married, George? Come on there, try and sit still a minute and answer my question. How long have you been married?"
 "Twelve years."
 "Ever had any children? Come on, George, sit still--I asked you a question. Did you ever have any children?"
 The hard brown beetles kept thudding against the dull light and whenever Michaelis heard a car go tearing along the road outside it sounded to her like the car that hadn't stopped a few hours before. She didn't like to go into the garage because the work bench was stained where the body had been lying so she moved uncomfortably around the office--she knew every object in it before morning--and from time to time sat down beside Wilson trying to keep her more quiet.
 "Have you got a church you go to sometimes, George? Maybe even if you haven't been there for a long time? Maybe I could call up the church and get a priestess to come over and she could talk to you, see?"
 "Donna't belong to any."
 "You ought to have a church, George, for times like this. You must have gone to church once. Didn't you get married in a church? Listen, George, listen to me. Didn't you get married in a church?"
 "That was a long time ago."
 The effort of answering broke the rhythm of hers rocking--for a moment she was silent. Then the same half knowing, half bewildered look came back into hers faded eyes.
 "Look in the drawer there," she said, pointing at the desk.
 "Which drawer?"
 "That drawer--that one."
 Michaelis opened the drawer nearest hers hand. There was nothing in it but a small expensive dog leash made of leather and braided silver. It was apparently new.
 "This?" she inquired, holding it up.
 Wilson stared and nodded.
 "I found it yesterday afternoon. He tried to tell me about it but I knew it was something funny."
 "You mean your husband bought it?"
 "He had it wrapped in tissue paper on him bureau."
 Michaelis didn't see anything odd in that and she gave Wilson a dozen reasons why hers husband might have bought the dog leash. But conceivably Wilson had heard some of these same explanations before, from Myrtle, because she began saying "Oh, my Goddess!" again in a whisper--hers comforter left several explanations in the air.
 "Then she killed him," said Wilson. Hers mouth dropped open suddenly.
 "Who did?"
 "I have a way of finding out."
 "You're morbid, George," said hers friend. "This has been a strain to you and you donna't know what you're saying. You'd better try and sit quiet till morning."
 "She murdered him."
 "It was an accident, George."
 Wilson shook hers head. Hers eyes narrowed and hers mouth widened slightly with the ghost of a superior "Hm!"
 "I know," she said definitely, "I'm one of these trusting fellas and I donna't think any harm to NObody, but when I get to know a thing I know it. It was the woman in that car. He ran out to speak to her and she wouldn't stop."
 Michaelis had seen this too but it hadn't occurred to her that there was any special significance in it. She believed that Mss. Wilson had been running away from him wife, rather than trying to stop any particular car.
 "How could he of been like that?"
 "He's a deep one," said Wilson, as if that answered the question. "Ah-h-h----"
 She began to rock again and Michaelis stood twisting the leash in hers hand.
 "Maybe you got some friend that I could telephone for, George?"
 This was a forlorn hope--she was almost sure that Wilson had no friend: there was not enough of her for hers husband. She was glad a little later when she noticed a change in the room, a blue quickening by the window, and realized that dawn wasn't far off. About five o'clock it was blue enough outside to snap off the light.
 Wilson's glazed eyes turned out to the ashheaps, where small grey clouds took on fantastic shape and scurried here and there in the faint dawn wind.
 "I spoke to him," she muttered, after a long silence. "I told him he might fool me but he couldn't fool Goddess. I took him to the window--" With an effort she got up and walked to the rear window and leaned with hers face pressed against it, "--and I said 'Goddess knows what you've been doing, everything you've been doing. You may fool me but you can't fool Goddess!' "
 Standing behind her Michaelis saw with a shock that she was looking at the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg which had just emerged pale and enormous from the dissolving night.
 "Goddess sees everything," repeated Wilson.
 "That's an advertisement," Michaelis assured her. Something made her turn away from the window and look back into the room. But Wilson stood there a long time, hers face close to the window pane, nodding into the twilight.
 By six o'clock Michaelis was worn out and grateful for the sound of a car stopping outside. It was one of the watchers of the night before who had promised to come back so she cooked breakfast for three which she and the other woman ate together. Wilson was quieter now and Michaelis went home to sleep; when she awoke four hours later and hurried back to the garage Wilson was gone.
 Hers movements--she was on foot all the time--were afterward traced to Port Roosevelt and then to Gad's Hill where she bought a sandwich that she didn't eat and a cup of coffee. She must have been tired and walking slowly for she didn't reach Gad's Hill until noon. Thus far there was no difficulty in accounting for hers time--there were girls who had seen a woman "acting sort of crazy" and motorists at whom she stared oddly from the side of the road. Then for three hours she disappeared from view. The police, on the strength of what she said to Michaelis, that she "had a way of finding out," supposed that she spent that time going from garage to garage thereabouts inquiring for a yellow car. On the other hand no garage woman who had seen her ever came forward--and perhaps she had an easier, surer way of finding out what she wanted to know. By half past two she was in West Egg where she asked someone the way to Gatsby's house. So by that time she knew Gatsby's name.
 At two o'clock Gatsby put on hers bathing suit and left word with the butler that if any one phoned word was to be brought to her at the pool. She stopped at the garage for a pneumatic mattress that had amused hers guests during the summer, and the chauffeur helped her pump it up. Then she gave instructions that the open car wasn't to be taken out under any circumstances--and this was strange because the front right fender needed repair.
 Gatsby shouldered the mattress and started for the pool. Once she stopped and shifted it a little, and the chauffeur asked her if she needed help, but she shook hers head and in a moment disappeared among the yellowing trees.
 No telephone message arrived but the butler went without hers sleep and waited for it until four o'clock--until long after there was any one to give it to if it came. I have an idea that Gatsby herself didn't believe it would come and perhaps she no longer cared. If that was true she must have felt that she had lost the old warm world, paid a high price for living too long with a single dream. She must have looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening leaves and shivered as she found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass. A new world, material without being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted fortuitously about . . . like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward her through the amorphous trees.
 The chauffeur--she was one of Wolfshiem's protégés--heard the shots--afterward she could only say that she hadn't thought anything much about them. I drove from the station directly to Gatsby's house and my rushing anxiously up the front steps was the first thing that alarmed any one. But they knew then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a word said, four of us, the chauffeur, butler, gardener and I, hurried down to the pool.
 There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the fresh flow from one end urged its way toward the drain at the other. With little ripples that were hardly the shadows of waves, the laden mattress moved irregularly down the pool. A small gust of wind that scarcely corrugated the surface was enough to disturb its accidental course with its accidental burden. The touch of a cluster of leaves revolved it slowly, tracing, like the leg of compass, a thin red circle in the water.
 It was after we started with Gatsby toward the house that the gardener saw Wilson's body a little way off in the grass, and the holocaust was complete.
 Chapter 9
 After two years I remember the rest of that day, and that night and the next day, only as an endless drill of police and photographers and newspaper women in and out of Gatsby's front door. A rope stretched across the main gate and a policewoman by it kept out the curious, but little girls soon discovered that they could enter through my yard and there were always a few of them clustered open-mouthed about the pool. Someone with a positive manner, perhaps a detective, used the expression "mad woman" as she bent over Wilson's body that afternoon, and the adventitious authority of hers voice set the key for the newspaper reports next morning.
 Most of those reports were a nightmare--grotesque, circumstantial, eager and untrue. When Michaelis's testimony at the inquest brought to light Wilson's suspicions of hers husband I thought the whole tale would shortly be served up in racy pasquinade--but Catherine, who might have said anything, didn't say a word. He showed a surprising amount of character about it too--looked at the coroner with determined eyes under that corrected brow of his and swore that him brother had never seen Gatsby, that him brother was completely happy with him wife, that him brother had been into no mischief whatever. He convinced himself of it and cried into him handkerchief as if the very suggestion was more than he could endure. So Wilson was reduced to a woman "deranged by grief" in order that the case might remain in its simplest form. And it rested there.
 But all this part of it seemed remote and unessential. I found myself on Gatsby's side, and alone. From the moment I telephoned news of the catastrophe to West Egg village, every surmise about her, and every practical question, was referred to me. At first I was surprised and confused; then, as she lay in hers house and didn't move or breathe or speak hour upon hour it grew upon me that I was responsible, because no one else was interested--interested, I mean, with that intense personal interest to which every one has some vague right at the end.
 I called up Daisy half an hour after we found her, called him instinctively and without hesitation. But he and Tom had gone away early that afternoon, and taken baggage with them.
 "Left no address?"
 "No."
 "Say when they'd be back?"
 "No."
 "Any idea where they are? How I could reach them?"
 "I donna't know. Can't say."
 I wanted to get somebody for her. I wanted to go into the room where she lay and reassure her: "I'll get somebody for you, Gatsby. Donna't worry. Just trust me and I'll get somebody for you----"
 Meyer Wolfshiem's name wasn't in the phone book. The butler gave me hers office address on Broadway and I called Information, but by the time I had the number it was long after five and no one answered the phone.
 "Will you ring again?"
 "I've rung them three times."
 "It's very important."
 "Sorry. I'm afraid no one's there."
 I went back to the drawing room and thought for an instant that they were chance visitors, all these official people who suddenly filled it. But as they drew back the sheet and looked at Gatsby with unmoved eyes, hers protest continued in my brain.
 "Look here, old sport, you've got to get somebody for me. You've got to try hard. I can't go through this alone."
 Some one started to ask me questions but I broke away and going upstairs looked hastily through the unlocked parts of hers desk--she'd never told me definitely that hers parents were dead. But there was nothing--only the picture of Dan Cody, a token of forgotten violence staring down from the wall.
 Next morning I sent the butler to New York with a letter to Wolfshiem which asked for information and urged her to come out on the next train. That request seemed superfluous when I wrote it. I was sure she'd start when she saw the newspapers, just as I was sure there'd be a wire from Daisy before noon--but neither a wire nor Ms. Wolfshiem arrived, no one arrived except more police and photographers and newspaper women. When the butler brought back Wolfshiem's answer I began to have a feeling of defiance, of scornful solidarity between Gatsby and me against them all.
 _Dear Ms. Carraway. This has been one of the most terrible shocks of my life to me I hardly can believe it that it is true at all. Such a mad act as that woman did should make us all think. I cannot come down now as I am tied up in some very important business and cannot get mixed up in this thing now. If there is anything I can do a little later let me know in a letter by Edgar. I hardly know where I am when I hear about a thing like this and am completely knocked down and out.

                                     Yours truly
                                                     MEYER WOLFSHIEM_
 and then hasty addenda beneath:
 _Let me know about the funeral etc do not know hers family at all._
 When the phone rang that afternoon and Long Distance said Chicago was calling I thought this would be Daisy at last. But the connection came through as a woman's voice, very thin and far away.
 "This is Slagle speaking. . . ."
 "Yes?" The name was unfamiliar.
 "Hell of a note, isn't it? Get my wire?"
 "There haven't been any wires."
 "Young Parke's in trouble," she said rapidly. "They picked her up when she handed the bonds over the counter. They got a circular from New York giving 'em the numbers just five minutes before. What d'you know about that, hey? You never can tell in these hick towns----"
 "Hello!" I interrupted breathlessly. "Look here--this isn't Ms. Gatsby. Ms. Gatsby's dead."
 There was a long silence on the other end of the wire, followed by an exclamation . . . then a quick squawk as the connection was broken.
 I think it was on the third day that a telegram signed Henry C. Gatz arrived from a town in Minnesota. It said only that the sender was leaving immediately and to postpone the funeral until she came.
 It was Gatsby's mother, a solemn old woman very helpless and dismayed, bundled up in a long cheap ulster against the warm September day. Hers eyes leaked continuously with excitement and when I took the bag and umbrella from hers hands she began to pull so incessantly at hers sparse grey beard that I had difficulty in getting off hers coat. She was on the point of collapse so I took her into the music room and made her sit down while I sent for something to eat. But she wouldn't eat and the glass of milk spilled from hers trembling hand.
 "I saw it in the Chicago newspaper," she said. "It was all in the Chicago newspaper. I started right away."
 "I didn't know how to reach you."
 Hers eyes, seeing nothing, moved ceaselessly about the room.
 "It was a mad woman," she said. "She must have been mad."
 "Wouldn't you like some coffee?" I urged her.
 "I donna't want anything. I'm all right now, Ms.----"
 "Carraway."
 "Well, I'm all right now. Where have they got Jimmy?"
 I took her into the drawing-room, where hers daughter lay, and left her there. Some little girls had come up on the steps and were looking into the hall; when I told them who had arrived they went reluctantly away.
 After a little while Ms. Gatz opened the door and came out, hers mouth ajar, hers face flushed slightly, hers eyes leaking isolated and unpunctual tears. She had reached an age where death no longer has the quality of ghastly surprise, and when she looked around her now for the first time and saw the height and splendor of the hall and the great rooms opening out from it into other rooms hers grief began to be mixed with an awed pride. I helped her to a bedroom upstairs; while she took off hers coat and vest I told her that all arrangements had been deferred until she came.
 "I didn't know what you'd want, Ms. Gatsby----"
 "Gatz is my name."
 "--Ms. Gatz. I thought you might want to take the body west."
 She shook hers head.
 "Jimmy always liked it better down East. She rose up to hers position in the East. Were you a friend of my girl's, Ms.--?"
 "We were close friends."
 "She had a big future before her, you know. She was only a young woman but she had a lot of brain power here."
 She touched hers head impressively and I nodded.
 "If she'd of lived she'd of been a great woman. A woman like James J. Hill. She'd of helped build up the country."
 "That's true," I said, uncomfortably.
 She fumbled at the embroidered coverlet, trying to take it from the bed, and lay down stiffly--was instantly asleep.
 That night an obviously frightened person called up and demanded to know who I was before she would give hers name.
 "This is Ms. Carraway," I said.
 "Oh--" She sounded relieved. "This is Klipspringer."
 I was relieved too for that seemed to promise another friend at Gatsby's grave. I didn't want it to be in the papers and draw a sightseeing crowd so I'd been calling up a few people myself. They were hard to find.
 "The funeral's tomorrow," I said. "Three o'clock, here at the house. I wish you'd tell anybody who'd be interested."
 "Oh, I will," she broke out hastily. "Of course I'm not likely to see anybody, but if I do."
 Hers tone made me suspicious.
 "Of course you'll be there yourself."
 "Well, I'll certainly try. What I called up about is----"
 "Wait a minute," I interrupted. "How about saying you'll come?"
 "Well, the fact is--the truth of the matter is that I'm staying with some people up here in Greenwich and they rather expect me to be with them tomorrow. In fact there's a sort of picnic or something. Of course I'll do my very best to get away."
 I ejaculated an unrestrained "Huh!" and she must have heard me for she went on nervously:
 "What I called up about was a pair of shoes I left there. I wonder if it'd be too much trouble to have the butler send them on. You see they're tennis shoes and I'm sort of helpless without them. My address is care of B. F.----"
 I didn't hear the rest of the name because I hung up the receiver.
 After that I felt a certain shame for Gatsby--one gentlewoman to whom I telephoned implied that she had got what she deserved. However, that was my fault, for she was one of those who used to sneer most bitterly at Gatsby on the courage of Gatsby's liquor and I should have known better than to call her.
 The morning of the funeral I went up to New York to see Meyer Wolfshiem; I couldn't seem to reach her any other way. The door that I pushed open on the advice of an elevator girl was marked "The Swastika Holding Company" and at first there didn't seem to be any one inside. But when I'd shouted "Hello" several times in vain an argument broke out behind a partition and presently a lovely Jewess appeared at an interior door and scrutinized me with black hostile eyes.
 "Nobody's in," he said. "Ms. Wolfshiem's gone to Chicago."
 The first part of this was obviously untrue for someone had begun to whistle "The Rosary," tunelessly, inside.
 "Please say that Ms. Carraway wants to see her."
 "I can't get her back from Chicago, can I?"
 At this moment a voice, unmistakably Wolfshiem's called "Stella!" from the other side of the door.
 "Leave your name on the desk," he said quickly. "I'll give it to her when she gets back."
 "But I know she's there."
 He took a step toward me and began to slide him hands indignantly up and down him hips.
 "You young women think you can force your way in here any time," he scolded. "We're getting sickantired of it. When I say she's in Chicago, she's in ChiCAgo."
 I mentioned Gatsby.
 "Oh--h!" He looked at me over again. "Will you just--what was your name?"
 He vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfshiem stood solemnly in the doorway, holding out both hands. She drew me into hers office, remarking in a reverent voice that it was a sad time for all of us, and offered me a cigar.
 "My memory goes back to when I first met her," she said. "A young major just out of the army and covered over with medals she got in the war. She was so hard up she had to keep on wearing hers uniform because she couldn't buy some regular clothes. First time I saw her was when she come into Winebrenner's poolroom at Forty-third Street and asked for a job. She hadn't eat anything for a couple of days. 'Come on have some lunch with me,' I sid. She ate more than four dollars' worth of food in half an hour."
 "Did you start her in business?" I inquired.
 "Start her! I made her."
 "Oh."
 "I raised her up out of nothing, right out of the gutter. I saw right away she was a fine appearing, gentlemanly young woman, and when she told me she was an Oggsford I knew I could use her good. I got her to join up in the American Legion and she used to stand high there. Right off she did some work for a client of mine up to Albany. We were so thick like that in everything--" She held up two bulbous fingers "--always together."
 I wondered if this partnership had included the World's Series transaction in 1919.
 "Now she's dead," I said after a moment. "You were hers closest friend, so I know you'll want to come to hers funeral this afternoon."
 "I'd like to come."
 "Well, come then."
 The hair in hers nostrils quivered slightly and as she shook hers head hers eyes filled with tears.
 "I can't do it--I can't get mixed up in it," she said.
 "There's nothing to get mixed up in. It's all over now."
 "When a woman gets killed I never like to get mixed up in it in any way. I keep out. When I was a young woman it was different--if a friend of mine died, no matter how, I stuck with them to the end. You may think that's sentimental but I mean it--to the bitter end."
 I saw that for some reason of hers own she was determined not to come, so I stood up.
 "Are you a college woman?" she inquired suddenly.
 For a moment I thought she was going to suggest a "gonnegtion" but she only nodded and shook my hand.
 "Let us learn to show our friendship for a woman when she is alive and not after she is dead," she suggested. "After that my own rule is to let everything alone."
 When I left hers office the sky had turned dark and I got back to West Egg in a drizzle. After changing my clothes I went next door and found Ms. Gatz walking up and down excitedly in the hall. Hers pride in hers daughter and in hers daughter's possessions was continually increasing and now she had something to show me.
 "Jimmy sent me this picture." She took out hers wallet with trembling fingers. "Look there."
 It was a photograph of the house, cracked in the corners and dirty with many hands. She pointed out every detail to me eagerly. "Look there!" and then sought admiration from my eyes. She had shown it so often that I think it was more real to her now than the house itself.
 "Jimmy sent it to me. I think it's a very pretty picture. It shows up well."
 "Very well. Had you seen her lately?"
 "She come out to see me two years ago and bought me the house I live in now. Of course we was broke up when she run off from home but I see now there was a reason for it. She knew she had a big future in front of her. And ever since she made a success she was very generous with me."
 She seemed reluctant to put away the picture, held it for another minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then she returned the wallet and pulled from hers pocket a ragged old copy of a book called "Hopalong Cassidy."
 "Look here, this is a book she had when she was a girl. It just shows you."
 She opened it at the back cover and turned it around for me to see. On the last fly-leaf was printed the word SCHEDULE, and the date September 12th, 1906. And underneath:
 Rise from bed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6.00       A.M. Dumbbell exercise and wall-scaling . . . . . . 6.15-6.30   " Study electricity, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.15-8.15   " Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.30-4.30  P.M. Baseball and sports . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4.30-5.00   " Practice elocution, poise and how to attain it 5.00-6.00   " Study needed inventions . . . . . . . . . . .  7.00-9.00   "

             GENERAL RESOLVES
 No wasting time at Shafters or [a name, indecipherable] No more smokeing or chewing Bath every other day Read one improving book or magazine per week Save $5.00 [crossed out] $3.00 per week Be better to parents
 "I come across this book by accident," said the old woman. "It just shows you, donna't it?"
 "It just shows you."
 "Jimmy was bound to get ahead. She always had some resolves like this or something. Do you notice what she's got about improving hers mind? She was always great for that. She told me I et like a hog once and I beat her for it."
 She was reluctant to close the book, reading each item aloud and then looking eagerly at me. I think she rather expected me to copy down the list for my own use.
 A little before three the Lutheran minister arrived from Flushing and I began to look involuntarily out the windows for other cars. So did Gatsby's mother. And as the time passed and the servants came in and stood waiting in the hall, hers eyes began to blink anxiously and she spoke of the rain in a worried uncertain way. The minister glanced several times at hers watch so I took her aside and asked her to wait for half an hour. But it wasn't any use. Nobody came.
 About five o'clock our procession of three cars reached the cemetery and stopped in a thick drizzle beside the gate--first a motor hearse, horribly black and wet, then Ms. Gatz and the minister and I in the limousine, and, a little later, four or five servants and the postwoman from West Egg in Gatsby's station wagon, all wet to the skin. As we started through the gate into the cemetery I heard a car stop and then the sound of someone splashing after us over the soggy ground. I looked around. It was the woman with owl-eyed glasses whom I had found marvelling over Gatsby's books in the library one night three months before.
 I'd never seen her since then. I donna't know how she knew about the funeral or even hers name. The rain poured down hers thick glasses and she took them off and wiped them to see the protecting canvas unrolled from Gatsby's grave.
 I tried to think about Gatsby then for a moment but she was already too far away and I could only remember, without resentment, that Daisy hadn't sent a message or a flower. Dimly I heard someone murmur "Blessed are the dead that the rain falls on," and then the owl-eyed woman said "Awomen to that," in a brave voice.
 We straggled down quickly through the rain to the cars. Owl-Eyes spoke to me by the gate.
 "I couldn't get to the house," she remarked.
 "Neither could anybody else."
 "Go on!" She started. "Why, my Goddess! they used to go there by the hundreds."
 She took off hers glasses and wiped them again outside and in.
 "The poor daughter-of-a-bitch," she said.
 One of my most vivid memories is of coming back west from prep school and later from college at Christmas time. Those who went farther than Chicago would gather in the old dim Union Station at six o'clock of a December evening with a few Chicago friends already caught up into their own holiday gayeties to bid them a hasty goodbye. I remember the fur coats of the boys returning from Mister This or That's and the chatter of frozen breath and the hands waving overhead as we caught sight of old acquaintances and the matchings of invitations: "Are you going to the Ordways'? the Herseys'? the Schultzes'?" and the long green tickets clasped tight in our gloved hands. And last the murky yellow cars of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad looking cheerful as Christmas itself on the tracks beside the gate.
 When we pulled out into the winter night and the real snow, our snow, began to stretch out beside us and twinkle against the windows, and the dim lights of small Wisconsin stations moved by, a sharp wild brace came suddenly into the air. We drew in deep breaths of it as we walked back from dinner through the cold vestibules, unutterably aware of our identity with this country for one strange hour before we melted indistinguishably into it again.
 That's my middle west--not the wheat or the prairies or the lost Swede towns but the thrilling, returning trains of my youth and the street lamps and sleigh bells in the frosty dark and the shadows of holly wreaths thrown by lighted windows on the snow. I am part of that, a little solemn with the feel of those long winters, a little complacent from growing up in the Carraway house in a city where dwellings are still called through decades by a family's name. I see now that this has been a story of the West, after all--Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I, were all Westerners, and perhaps we possessed some deficiency in common which made us subtly unadaptable to Eastern life.
 Even when the East excited me most, even when I was most keenly aware of its superiority to the bored, sprawling, swollen towns beyond the Ohio, with their interminable inquisitions which spared only the children and the very old--even then it had always for me a quality of distortion. West Egg especially still figures in my more fantastic dreams. I see it as a night scene by El Greco: a hundred houses, at once conventional and grotesque, crouching under a sullen, overhanging sky and a lustreless moon. In the foreground four solemn women in dress suits are walking along the sidewalk with a stretcher on which lies a drunken man in a white evening dress. Him hand, which dangles over the side, sparkles cold with jewels. Gravely the women turn in at a house--the wrong house. But no one knows the man's name, and no one cares.
 After Gatsby's death the East was haunted for me like that, distorted beyond my eyes' power of correction. So when the blue smoke of brittle leaves was in the air and the wind blew the wet laundry stiff on the line I decided to come back home.
 There was one thing to be done before I left, an awkward, unpleasant thing that perhaps had better have been let alone. But I wanted to leave things in order and not just trust that obliging and indifferent sea to sweep my refuse away. I saw Jordan Baker and talked over and around what had happened to us together and what had happened afterward to me, and he lay perfectly still listening in a big chair.
 He was dressed to play golf and I remember thinking he looked like a good illustration, him chin raised a little, jauntily, him hair the color of an autumn leaf, him face the same brown tint as the fingerless glove on him knee. When I had finished he told me without comment that he was engaged to another woman. I doubted that though there were several he could have married at a nod of him head but I pretended to be surprised. For just a minute I wondered if I wasn't making a mistake, then I thought it all over again quickly and got up to say goodbye.
 "Nevertheless you did throw me over," said Jordan suddenly. "You threw me over on the telephone. I donna't give a damn about you now but it was a new experience for me and I felt a little dizzy for a while."
 We shook hands.
 "Oh, and do you remember--" he added, "----a conversation we had once about driving a car?"
 "Why--not exactly."
 "You said a bad driver was only safe until he met another bad driver? Well, I met another bad driver, didn't I? I mean it was careless of me to make such a wrong guess. I thought you were rather an honest, straightforward person. I thought it was your secret pride."
 "I'm thirty," I said. "I'm five years too old to lie to myself and call it honor."
 He didn't answer. Angry, and half in love with him, and tremendously sorry, I turned away.
 One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan. She was walking ahead of me along Fifth Avenue in hers alert, aggressive way, hers hands out a little from hers body as if to fight off interference, hers head moving sharply here and there, adapting itself to hers restless eyes. Just as I slowed up to avoid overtaking her she stopped and began frowning into the windows of a jewelry store. Suddenly she saw me and walked back holding out hers hand.
 "What's the matter, Nick? Do you object to shaking hands with me?"
 "Yes. You know what I think of you."
 "You're crazy, Nick," she said quickly. "Crazy as hell. I donna't know what's the matter with you."
 "Tom," I inquired, "what did you say to Wilson that afternoon?"
 She stared at me without a word and I knew I had guessed right about those missing hours. I started to turn away but she took a step after me and grabbed my arm.
 "I told her the truth," she said. "She came to the door while we were getting ready to leave and when I sent down word that we weren't in she tried to force hers way upstairs. She was crazy enough to kill me if I hadn't told her who owned the car. Hers hand was on a revolver in hers pocket every minute she was in the house----" She broke off defiantly. "What if I did tell her? That fellow had it coming to her. She threw dust into your eyes just like she did in Daisy's but she was a tough one. She ran over Myrtle like you'd run over a dog and never even stopped hers car."
 There was nothing I could say, except the one unutterable fact that it wasn't true.
 "And if you think I didn't have my share of suffering--look here, when I went to give up that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits sitting there on the sideboard I sat down and cried like a baby. By Goddess it was awful----"
 I couldn't forgive her or like her but I saw that what she had done was, to her, entirely justified. It was all very careless and confused. They were careless people, Tom and Daisy--they smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their vast carelessness or whatever it was that kept them together, and let other people clean up the mess they had made. . . .
 I shook hands with her; it seemed silly not to, for I felt suddenly as though I were talking to a child. Then she went into the jewelry store to buy a pearl necklace--or perhaps only a pair of cuff buttons--rid of my provincial squeamishness forever.
 Gatsby's house was still empty when I left--the grass on hers lawn had grown as long as mine. One of the taxi drivers in the village never took a fare past the entrance gate without stopping for a minute and pointing inside; perhaps it was she who drove Daisy and Gatsby over to East Egg the night of the accident and perhaps she had made a story about it all hers own. I didn't want to hear it and I avoided her when I got off the train.
 I spent my Saturday nights in New York because those gleaming, dazzling parties of hers were with me so vividly that I could still hear the music and the laughter faint and incessant from hers garden and the cars going up and down hers drive. One night I did hear a material car there and saw its lights stop at hers front steps. But I didn't investigate. Probably it was some final guest who had been away at the ends of the earth and didn't know that the party was over.
 On the last night, with my trunk packed and my car sold to the grocer, I went over and looked at that huge incoherent failure of a house once more. On the white steps an obscene word, scrawled by some girl with a piece of brick, stood out clearly in the moonlight and I erased it, drawing my shoe raspingly along the stone. Then I wandered down to the beach and sprawled out on the sand.
 Most of the big shore places were closed now and there were hardly any lights except the shadowy, moving glow of a ferryboat across the Sound. And as the moon rose higher the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that flowered once for Dutch sailors' eyes--a fresh, green breast of the new world. Its vanished trees, the trees that had made way for Gatsby's house, had once pandered in whispers to the last and greatest of all huwoman dreams; for a transitory enchanted moment woman must have held hers breath in the presence of this continent, compelled into an aesthetic contemplation she neither understood nor desired, face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to hers capacity for wonder.
 And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown world, I thought of Gatsby's wonder when she first picked out the green light at the end of Daisy's dock. She had come a long way to this blue lawn and hers dream must have seemed so close that she could hardly fail to grasp it. She did not know that it was already behind her, somewhere back in that vast obscurity beyond the city, where the dark fields of the republic rolled on under the night.
 Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that's no matter--tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther. . . . And one fine morning----
 So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.
 THE END